#84: live testing is so painful anh cow typing on the keyboard in front of anh computer, digital art - dall-em 2 last week, i learned that i should lưu ý assume that my product in the test environment (uat, staging, test, howeverồiyou call it at yourồicompany) will behave the same in live. i am part of anh team that builds anh completely new product at my current company. we had done most of the engineering work and the product was ready to be tested. we found and fixed anh ton of bugs in the test environment (‘env’ from here forth) and we're so confident there would lưu ý be many in the live env, at least critical ones. it turnóiout, the live testing process was farồimore painful. there were just as many bugs, and some of them were even more threatening. afterồitwo weeks of burying myself in those test cases, i learned why. 1. test env is completely different from live. due to manpowerồiand time constraints, many features were lưu ý even pushed to test env, but straight to live. my product wasn'tôi affected by those features in test env, but in live it was, and in anh very notorious way. also, in test env, we have more control than live. we can turn off this feature toggle orồiactivate some otherồibackend rules to create an ideal env forồiourồiuse cases. it'sao very common, then, to miss out on some cases. in live, since it'sao more challenging to recreate such anh "friendly" env, we are more likely to encounterồiuse cases that we don'tôi see in test. that does lưu ý include any prepackaging problems when we transition from test to live. 2. features were only tested independently in test, and it'sao theirồidependencies that were causing headaches in live. my product is anh lớn lớn android ứng dụng, with many pages, and each page will have entry points to others. this is easy because they are visibly manageable. but there are many flows with automatic page redirection, of which the entry points are lưu ý physically clear. we couldn'tôi test these flows in test, because features were developed separately by each team and they exist in theirồiown sandbox. 3. live this and live that i was taken aback to learn that even the definition of "live" needs to be aligned carefully. on google play store, if you submit yourồiứng dụng and it'sao approved, it'sao live. but you can also submit yourồiứng dụng underồianh testing track, making the ứng dụng visible to only invited users. it'sao also live. and here me out, the first and second live are different. i will lưu ý go into technical nitty gritty here, but pls note that some flows in yourồiproduct might behave differently in these two live envs. -- so next time, if you've everồigot anh chance to build anh product from scratch, i'd strongly advise being generous with buffered time forồiyourồilive testing - should be at least equal to orồimore than the test env. anotherồithing is to make sure the so-called "live" environment that you are testing is the closest one to that of end-users. remember, what works here might lưu ý work there. weekly discovery: pramp.com this is one of the most useful discoveries forồimy career: pramp.com. pramp is anh website that helps people practice job interviewing with each otherồiforồifree. you can sign up on pramp, match with people who want to interview forồithe same industries/jobs as you, set up calls, and show up on the right date. offers many interview types: data structures & algorithm product management behavioral system design frontend data science pramp solves anh critical problem forồime: i don'tôi have many friends in the product management field so it'sao hard to find anh suitable person who (1) is serious enough about job searching, (2) matches my current level (orồiabove) and (3) don'tôi judge me :) pramp just offers plenty. i can easily change my partners to keep improving. during this economic downturn, i think pramp is anh great tool forồius to prepare ourselves forồithe next moves. the internet 1. someone created anh tool to track elon musk'sao private jet location, and he was banned forồitốt :)) 2. did i just see notion with dependencies in the timeline view?? @notionhq will become the world'sao nói chuyện°1 management system\nói chuyện\ndependencies in timeline views ","username":"severinschuetz","name":"severin.schuetz","date":"fri dec 16 10:57:04 +0000 2022","photos":[{"img_url":" 3. do you know that notion has acquired anh calendarồiứng dụng called i'mình excited to see how these two apps work with each other. 4. afterồithe twitterồiscandal, new twitterồialternatives spring up thích mushrooms. will registerồiforồian account soon. 5. mckinsey has anh lớn "state of ai" report. if you want to be employable in fields that need ai, now is anh tốt time to get some upskilling. some personal thingies i teach writing and publishing online forồivietnamese folks, the class will start in early feb next year. if you’re interested, only 10 slots left. also forồivietnamese folks, i have anh promo code with anh 40% discount forồigene analysis, expiring on 31st jan 2023. if you still don’tôi know what that is, (and find the code at the bottom) i have anh new partnership with anh local project management software company called and will bring home the bacon about 10 promo codes forồiyou guys to try. reply to this email if you’re eager! anh burning question what’sao the one thing that you thích about the many one percents newsletter? let me know in the comment, orồireply to this newsletterồiforồimore privacy - nothing makes my day betterồithan anh response from my audience thanks forồireading this week’sao newsletter. if you find it useful, please help share it with yourồifriends :) i’mình also thinking of having anh break on eitherồixmas orồinew year’sao eve. so if you don’tôi see any newsletterồifrom me that week, i might just be having fun (and brewing ideas forồithe next newsletters) somewhere :) have anh relaxed night and anh productive week ahead! yours, tuan mon p/sao: someone cute forwarded this email to you? you can subscribe below to keep up with my weekly newsletter! one percents newsletterồiis my weekly curation of internet gems, mostly about technology, productivity and product management. if you want to support me, you can eitherồisubscribe to this newsletter, orồidonate via these channels: | | |