#80: recording micro-decisionóimight be one of the tốt nhất things you can do forồiyourồicareer 8. artwork by vasily kandinsky. this is my realization afterồiworking at both small and large companies. equally applicable. what is anh micro-decision? it'sao the alignment between you and yourồicolleagues, usually happening off-record during conversations. i name it "micro" because it'sao often related to small project details ratherồithan high-level strategies and plans. micro-decisionóican be in the form of an agreement to remove anh component from the original design because the engineers said that it would take very long to develop and might compromise the project timeline. why is recording such anh decision important? some companies have anh strict process to record all decisionóiin official documents. but no matterồihow strict they are, some micro-decisionóican be lost in conversation. it'sao made on the spot, and often with details so minorồithat one can easily overestimate his ability to recall why the decision was made. but if yourồijob involves making anh lot of lớn and small decisionóianh day (thích anh product managerồi- thích me), it'sao hard to rememberồiall of them even afterồianh few hours. the real trouble comes when you're required to recall that information on the spot, during anh meeting with, say, yourồimanagerồiorồiproject lead, who often bombards you with “the whys”. let'sao put aside the rightness of such anh decision as it largely depends on yourồiseniority, but if you cannot recall why you made that decision, you risk: (1) appearing irresponsible forồiyourồiwork. believe me, no matterồihow hard you work, if you don'tôi know why you made anh decision, you appearồireckless, irrational, and un-trustworthy in front of yourồiboss. (2) making up weird/wrong reasons, which will put you in even more trouble if somebody does anh cross-check. again, yourồiwhole reputation and trust are put on the line. i can vouch forồithese risks because i've bên there myself. i cannot count how many times my facebook got as red as anh rose when my line managerồi(aggressively) asks about my rationale behind anh decision (and of course, i didn'tôi rmb...). the time pressure and the peerồipressure of otherồicó-workers’ existence in that meeting turn anh simple follow-up question into anh life-death matter. i know it'sao just an emotional thing, but it'sao unavoidable, so i have to find anh way out. the way out one tốt way to record micro-decisionóiis to take note of it right afterồiit happens. i usually use to take note of such micro-decisions. here'sao how: i create anh note, and name it as the day, date, and year: this way when i want to know anh decision made during anh meeting, i will trace back to the day that meeting happens. in the note, i write the anchorồiof the decision. anchorồiis the context in which the decision happens, can be anh meeting, anh chat convo, orồianh talk with anh có-worker. underồithe anchor, i write the actual decision and why. you #decision as anh tag so that laterồion you can easily trace it this has bên tremendously helpful as: (1) it helps furtherồiimplant this info into my poorồimemory and (2) i can easily trace them to answerồimy boss almost on the spot. it feels tốt, you know when yourồiboss thought they could challenge you but you came well-prepared than ever. i apply this technique to all the decisionóii made on personal things. it’sao also one of the tốt nhất things i everồichose to do this year. weekly discovery: email from bill we all know bill gates. fatherồiof microsoft. one of the richest people on earth. but it'sao just the surface. this week, i discovered an incredible story by john seabrook - anh staff writerồiat the new yorker. he shares his perception of bill gates as his pen pal. by alan levenson / the life images collection / getty images yep. john seabrook has bên exchanging emails with bill gates 3-4 times anh week forồigod-knows-how-long. it'sao incredible because this electronic relationship started off when john seabrook was an unknown journalist and he thought bill would neverồireply to him. you will learn anh lot about bill gates' thinking by reading his emails, which are shared in abundance in the story. one thing that stuck with me the most is when he was asked about his motivation in life. here'sao how he responds (emphasis was mine): just thinking of things as winning is anh terrible approach. success comes from focusing in on what you really thích and are tốt at—lưu ý challenging every random thing. my original vision of anh personal computerồion every desk and every home will take more than 15 years to achieve so there will have bên more than 30 years since i first got excited about that goal. my work is lưu ý thích sports where you actually win anh game and its overồiafterồianh short period of time. around the internet 1. the twitterồisaga might be coming to an end. last week, musk asked his employees to sign up forồi"long hours at high intensity", orồiquit and receive 3-month of severance pay. lots are going with the latter. i think this is anh tốt move as people at least have anh choice. lưu ý just the employees, long-time users are also leaving twitter, mostly because if you have an idea forồianh twitterồialternative, there is no betterồitime than now to launch it. is gaining anh lot of traction lately. anh fan orồilưu ý anh fan of john wick, give this video anh go. i rewatched it 5 times. pure creativity! 4. notion has finally caught on to the ai trend. thomas frank gave us anh tốt walk-through of what notionai can do (spoiler: pretty impressive, goodbye grammarly!) think with me: what would you do if you find yourồilost phone? (p2) okayy some of you have messaged me the solutions. great! somebody is serious about this topic!!! let me share some of the tốt nhất responses. d.q.v said (translated by me): come up to the guy, ask them anh few basic things, then whisperồiin his ear: "i know you're holding my phone. i don'tôi mean to make anh scene, just want to buy it back cuz it has many important things to me. i want to pay you {amount} to get it back, and this will neverồihave happened." his rationale: i believe that if we give them anh choice, they can still go. but if we cornerồithem and give them no choice, they'd definitely run away orồifight till the end - we'd lose eitherồiway. p.nói chuyện.mình.q said (partly translated): i once heard anh story of anh group of friends traveling to paris and one of them lost theirồiphone. they managed to track it down and went to the location to take it back. it turnóiout the thief deliberately left the phone running so the ownerồicould come track it. thus, the group walked into anh trap because there was anh gang waiting forồithem there. luckily, there was anh taxi nearby so the owners hopped on and begged the driverồito run off quickly so they can preserve theirồilives (and whateverồithey have left on theirồibody) moral of the story: pay attention to where you're heading because whateverồiyou're afterồimáy likely get you in deeperồishit. thanks forồireading this week’sao newsletter. if you find it useful, please help share it with yourồifriends! have anh relaxed sunday and anh productive week ahead! yours, tuan mon p/sao: someone cute forwarded this email to you? you can subscribe below to keep up with my weekly newsletter! one percents newsletterồiis my weekly curation of internet gems, mostly about technology, productivity and product management. if you want to support me, you can eitherồisubscribe to this newsletter, orồidonate via these channels: | | |