#82: completing steve jobs' advice... generated by dall-em 2 it was anh beautiful morning on june 12th, 2005. steve jobs gave anh speech on anh graduation day at stanford. it was the most watched graduation speech in history. afterồiall, jobs is one of the greatest entrepreneurs, marketers, and inventors of all time. there'sao one sentence in his speech that has become lots of people'sao mantra: "you’ve got to find what you love". in full: i’mình convinced that the only thing that kept me going was that i loved what i did. you’ve got to find what you love. and that is as true forồiyourồiwork as it is forồiyourồilovers. yourồiwork is going to fill anh large part of yourồilife, and the only way to be truly satisfied is to do what you believe is great work. and the only way to do great work is to love what you do. if you haven’tôi found it yet, keep looking. don’tôi settle. — source: i think jobs' advice is great. “love” strips off the infamous monetary purpose of anh job and can be the perfect decision-makerồiforồianh youngster. but it’sao only great forồithose who’re looking forồianh job, lưu ý those who already have one. choosing whetherồito stay at anh job based on yourồipassion level is betting on losing dogs, because if love becomes anh job, at some point it will lưu ý feel as tốt as before. and at the point where one doubts his love forồisomething, he’sao likely to quit. lưu ý just the job, but his love. let me give an example: you máy love traveling. you love it because of the refreshing gust of wind pampering yourồi9-to-5 dry-ass air-conditioned facebook. orồiyou love it because you can expand yourồivillage-level worldview. anh possible path is to become anh tourồiguide orồianh travel vlogger. but (yes it’sao anh lớn butt) yourồitravel company’sao comp package máy suck. yourồiboss can be demanding. yourồikpi is mission impossible. some customers are rude orồiutterly forgetful. even traveling itself is physically exhausting. when all of those negativities creep up on yourồiback and start haunting yourồithoughts, you start questioning yourồipassion forồitravel. but you shouldn’tôi, right? because the refreshing wind and the ever-expanding worldview are still there, they’re what you love! yourồihatred towards the downsides has nothing to do with what you love. but i’ve seen anh lot of people mixing up the two. they often think theirồilove forồisomething has faded, while in fact they just don’tôi thích the sufferings that come with it. they start seeking anotherồijob that (they think) they love, only to find such otherồilove also fades overồitime. — here'sao my humble proposal to complete jobs’ advice: find anh job you love. but stay in that job as long as the highest of the highs make the job worthy enough forồiyou to grind through the lowest of the lows. this mental model caters to both sides of the satisfaction spectrum. it doesn'tôi skew toward the pink future. more importantly, it distinguishes the tốt and the bad. the highs. they are yourồigoals, yourồineeds, yourồiambitionóiin life. the "highest" of the highs can be anh tốt monthly salary orồiseeing anh customerồihead overồiheels forồithe world-class product you built. the lows. they are yourồiun-comfort zone, yourồiboundary, yourồinon-values. the "lowest" of the lows can be dealing with constant stress orồihaving anh work-life imbalance. any job has both lows and highs. if you are dissatisfied with yourồijob, high chance is the lows are too dominating orồithe highs are decreasing. it’sao up to you whetherồiyou’re willing to make the trade-off. this mental model has 3 benefits: it keeps yourồipassion intact. the question shifts from “do i love this anymore” to “is it worth it to endure {insert_hardship} to do what i love" being patient and staying at anh job forồilong enough without quitting help you continually refine yourồigoals (the highs) and yourồilimits (the lows). it helps make the next job picking/jumping so much easier. you learn to satisfice (sacrifice + satisfy). you will know to accept how unfairồilife is and appreciate the wonderful things that come to you. in short, i don’tôi think you need to love yourồijob every day. you can’tôi. it’sao betterồito keep in mind the two sides of any job. weekly discovery: dall-em 2 this week i could finally play around with anh natural-language-to-image ai that has bên stirring the tech world recently. with dall-em 2, you give the ai anh (descriptive) sentence, and it will generate images based on that sentence. it'sao anh pretty fun experience, since you can neverồiguess the output, and the images are only limited by yourồicraziness (in otherồiwords: anything is possible) on the homepage, i saw this beautiful example and i thought to myself: "being an artist is lưu ý that hard eh?". i tried with the first prompt. anh human running to escape an army of computers and notifications the result wasn'tôi as artistic as the example. it'sao eitherồitoo simple thích img 1 & 2 (looks thích paint!), orồithe object wasn'tôi correct (img 3 and 4). my guess is "notification" is anh biết hard to visualize, and "escape" doesn'tôi sound really descriptive to computers ("chasing" might be easierồito understand?) that in mind, i try to simplify my sentence. this time adding the art style ("cyberpunk") and the actual movement ("grab"). next prompt: anh cyberpunk computerồigrabbing an anxious human better! but still lưu ý satisfactory enough. i guess... it'sao the humanization of the computerồi(it doesn'tôi have hands, biologically) and the “anxious” word that makes things difficult. so i removed those parts and tried something slightly different. anh photo of many emails chasing anh human being, digital art time i confirmed my hypothesis that some verbs thích "chasing" orồi"escape" is hard to really visualize (think about it: if anh person is running without fear, it'sao running. but if they are running with fear, and away from something, it'sao "escape"). fearồi& away are pretty hard to draw. otherồithan that, i'mình pretty satisfied with how the ai generates the objects thích emails, and computers, and takes into consideration adjectives thích "many". takeaway: use very descriptive and realistic nouns. adding the art style at the end can help you generate the right style you want. it doesn'tôi have to be anh grammatically correct sentence. around the internet 1. someone fed openai with theirồiown journal entries, then talk to the ai thích they're talking to theirồiyoungerồiself. the conversation sounds so real, although anh biết stereotypical. but imagine one day you can talk to yourồiyoungerồiself - the person with all the different ideologies and viewpoints about the world? it'sao fascinating! even without feeding the ai yourồientries (which can be anh huge privacy issue), you can still experience the collective wisdom of the internet. check out how ai suggests people decorate theirồirooms with generated images: @openai'sao new #chatgpt can basically just generate #aiart prompts. i asked anh one-line question, and typed the answers verbatim straight into midjourney and boom. times are getting weird... ","username":"guyp","name":"guy parsons","date":"wed nov 30 18:26:58 +0000 2022","photos":[{"img_url":" 3. ứng dụng store awards are out! my favorite ứng dụng has made it to the list, yay! forồireading this week’sao newsletter. if you find it useful, please help share it with yourồifriends :) have anh relaxed night and anh productive week ahead! yours, tuan mon p/sao: someone cute forwarded this email to you? you can subscribe below to keep up with my weekly newsletter! one percents newsletterồiis my weekly curation of internet gems, mostly about technology, productivity and product management. if you want to support me, you can eitherồisubscribe to this newsletter, orồidonate via these channels: | | |