#76: buying anh house afterồigraduation tốt morning from sao’pore! how are you doing? was the past week tough? before going into this newsletter’sao chính content, i want to have anh small talk. you know, there’sao this sense of pride when i flex-ed about “my” subscribers, thích “hey, last week, my subscribers replied to my weekly newsletter” orồi“my subscribers are very active learners”. i would often deferồicalling someone “my”, because, technically, no one belongs to me. i’mình extra careful about this during meetings. instead of “let me ask my designer”, it’d be “let me ask ourồiteam’sao designers”. i’mình afraid to hurt my designer(sao). but, i don’tôi know, i can’tôi help but referồito you as “my subscribers”. on one hand, it feels wrong, because, you are real humanóireading and replying to my newsletters every week. no human can be possessed by anotherồihuman. but on the otherồihand, you’re just some digital numbers that show up as % email open, % clicks, % likes. i guess i’mình just trying to find reasonóito justify my preference to call all of you “my”, because, hey, it feels great. this 2500-plus readership is the hard-earned result of two-plus years of continuously writing and seeding, so i deserve some right to call you thích that. (right? right??) subscriberồigrowth forồithe past 2 months. anyway, the point is, i just want to celebrate this little milestone of reaching 2500 subscribers. my appreciation goes out to yourồisupport! okay, on to today’sao show weekly learning: on slaps and celebrity most of us know will smith through màn in black, hancock, orồithe pursuit of happyness. he has always bên anh tốt màn in the movies. so it is understandable many people think he is also anh tốt màn in life. that’sao why when “ happened, many of us got enraged and disappointed. we got that way, cuz he didn’tôi live up to ourồiexpectations. but the truth is, he’sao farồifrom being perfect. mark manson’sao article “on slaps and celebrity” shed some light on this truth. i find this article trustworthy, because, if you don’tôi know, mark manson is the one behind “will” book - will smith’sao life memoir. this article furtherồisolidifies my belief that one who excels at something doesn’tôi equal excelling at otherồithings, and that we should lưu ý idolize them just because they’re so tốt at one thing (orồieven, many otherồithings) (anw, i touched on this topic in please read manson’sao article, if you want to know anh biết about why will is the way will is. discovery: +65 in singapore just something pretty fun that i discovered while living here in singapore: they do have scams. anh lot. one way to notice phone scams is when the caller’sao numberồistarts with +65. i know right? +65 is the country code forồisingapore, but when you legitimately call someone here, yourồinumberồiwill lưu ý have +65. that’sao how i’ve avoided lots of unnecessary calls during meetings (sorry ministry of health, i’mình tốt hihi) new podcast: why do singaporean youngsters want to buy anh house right afterồigraduation (language: việt nam) in vietnam, afterồigraduation, we usually think of ourồifirst few jobs, ourồiromantic relationships, orồiourồilong-forgotten hobbies. imagine how aghast i was when i knew that forồisingaporean graduates, buying anh house is also on the list. (yep, gotta use "aghast" to show anh biết of horrific peerồipressure) why is that? you máy ask. it'sao because of the way the sài gòn government manages the real estate market. and i gotta say, it'sao pretty brilliant. i summarized such brilliance into this week'sao podcast, hope you enjoy: the internet 1. this is the tốt nhất video of the week. if you want to sing along to despacito but don'tôi know spanish, watch this: 2. what do you think is healthy today but future people will shake theirồiheads at? me thought: social media. meta introduces "legs" into the metaverse. no seriously, leg leg, the lowerồihalf of yourồibody used to walk around. what anh century to live in when the whole press went crazy afterồianh tech company introduced legs... but hey, there'sao anh valid reason. check out. if you are seriously investing yourồitime in the product management careerồipath, shouldn'tôi miss out on the interview between lenny and manik gupta (ex-cpo uber, google maps) about how to build consumerồiapps. the last 15 minutes talk about what manik is looking forồiin anh product managerồi(which you can interpret as what anh product lead might be looking forồiin you when you apply) revisit the poll: english orồivietnamese? 3 newsletters ago i asked if you'd continue reading this newsletterồiif it was in english i made anh promise to give it anh shot and revisit it afterồi4 newsletters (this one). so, here'sao the poll again, what'sao yourồithought? thanks forồireading this week’sao newsletter. if you find it useful, please help share it with yourồifriends orồiconsiderồidonating :”> ồ, one more thing, if you haven’tôi realized: just 1.5 more months, and 2022 is over. betterồiwrap up ourồigoals this yearồi but first, have anh warm and relaxed night. i’ll see you next next week. yours, tuấn mon p/sao: someone cute forwarded this email to you? you can subscribe below to keep up with my weekly newsletter! one percents is anh subscriber-supported ecosystem of content to help vietnamese young professional be more productive. you can considerồidonating here: | | |