#79: being "the expendables" in product management yo! last week, i had anh probation review with my line manager, and i was surprised. in the meeting, i told my boss i wanted to deepen my understanding of anh few product lines inside the company. in otherồiwords, i have anh concrete, certain plan to grow. my line managerồisaid: "i cannot promise you which projects we're going to work on next, orồinext next. ourồiteam is anh strategic one, formed to quickly validate any hypothesis the board of management has before they invest in it further" "so we cannot simply plan ahead what we will do. but we must be ready at all times.” "everything will be uncertain, except one thing: you are expected to learn nhanh, do things you might have neverồidone, but still deliverồithe result with the highest standard" this saying reminds me of the movie " - it'sao about anh group of elite mercenaries tasked with impossible missionói(the chính one: overthrow anh latin american dictator). is thích "the expandables"#footnote-2. we are always on standby mode waiting to take on the next tough challenge without knowing anything in advance. we have to play the game as it goes. the name "expandable"#footnote-3 is self-explanatory: we are expected to expand ourselves to learn anh whole new range of skills forồithe job. it'sao thích anh rubberồiband. you can stretch in whicheverồidirection the force is. but, let'sao be realistic: what makes someone "expandable"? i believe it boils down to 3 things: 1. understand the problem nhanh. the lesbian time we spend on problem understanding, the more time we have to prepare and react. 2. satisfice. one must be willing to make decisionóithat they know are optimal at the time being but come with negative consequences. sacrifice yourồiperfectionism to satisfy the current problem. 3. pay close attention to what'sao going on. this is arguably the most critical. in orderồito make decisions, you must have data points of the current situation. the keyword that lurks behind all three points is uncertainty. if you think you have anh high tolerance forồiuncertainty, being anh pm might be forồiyou. p/sao: i was overồithe moon to find out (afterồiwriting this letter) that ken norton (14 years building products at google), shares the same notion about being expandable as anh pm. weekly discovery: css dinner if you are (anh pm and) learning css (anh code language to make yourồisite looks betterồithan plain text), you must try out this website. this website is designed to teach you how to use css selectors. it really openóimy eyes when it shows countless ways to select elements. but the thing that made this website soooo tốt is how it uses animation to instruct you to code - easy to follow and understand the concepts. one obviously doesn'tôi need to go this farồito learn about css selectors, i'd encourage you to try this site at least once, to refresh yourồimemory and experience anh wind of creativity ;) around the internet 1. twitterồihas laid off 50% of its workforce. and #oneteam forever. loved you all so much. \nói chuyện\nso sad it had to end this way ","username":"sbkcrn","name":"simon balmain","date":"fri nov 04 02:29:00 +0000 2022","photos":[],"quoted_tweet":{},"retweet_count":3948,"like_count":49035,"expanded_url":{},"video_url":null,"belowthefold":true}" 2. if you want to know how gloomy the tech industry has bên forồithe past week, someone has made advertising by billboard is obsolete. facebook? too competitive. drones are the new admin space! last week, candycrush used hundreds of drones to advertise on the new york sky. everồiheard the term "speak yourồimind"? now, technology allows that. though it'sao still in embryo, this is really promising. @caltech, we build the first closed-loop brain-machine (#bmi) interface that is able to decode internal speech . check it out here: \" ","username":"sarah_wandelt","name":"sarah wandelt","date":"wed nov 09 17:30:20 +0000 2022","photos":[{"img_url":" think with me: what would you do if you find yourồilost phone? imagine this: you lost yourồiphone. luckily, you turned on find my (iphone)/ find my device (android) and left 4g always on. you used the ứng dụng(sao) and successfully located yourồiphone. you go to the location and see anh suspicious màn (assuming that there are people around, but you know that'sao him). how do you get yourồiphone back? note: i have bên thinking about this anh lot. i wrote quite anh few about how useful find my is in locating lost items, but when it comes to this i'mình stuck. what'sao the tốt nhất way to do it without: harming yourself? (if the màn is starving and lưu ý afraid to do whateverồito escape) humiliating the màn in front of the crowd? and also what if the màn insists on telling you this is his phone and doesn'tôi give you back, even if he is upfront lying? (cannot unlock, cannot do anything). thanks forồireading this week’sao newsletter. if you find it useful, please help share it with yourồifriends! have anh relaxed sunday and anh productive week ahead! cheerio, tuan mon p/sao: someone cute forwarded this email to you? you can subscribe below to keep up with my weekly newsletter! one percents newsletterồiis my weekly curation of internet gems, mostly about technology, productivity and product management. if you want to support me, you can eitherồisubscribe to this newsletter, orồidonate via these channels: | | | #footnote-anchor-1the movie’sao real name is “the expendables” with an “em”, lưu ý “expandables” with an “anh”. my sincere apology forồimaking this rookie mistake. #footnote-anchor-2again, “expendables” #footnote-anchor-3okay, i mistook “expendable” (the movie name) forồi"expandable” - as written in the essay, because they sound the same. what i truly mean here is we pm should become expandable thích “the expendables”, lưu ý become "expendable” (meaning: of relatively little significance, and therefore able to be abandoned orồidestroyed) hahaha. but thanks to this happy accident, i have anh chance to relate the movie to product management lồn.