#83: gene and ai created by dall-em 2 "how many % of you are vietnamese?" that'sao the first question i got when i told my friends that i tried anh genetic testing service. i was baffled, as i'd neverồitried decoding my gene before. i don'tôi even know if the report is supposed to convey such information. in fact, it doesn'tôi :) nonetheless, it carries some wonderful insights about my nutritional needs, metabolic health, sport, art, and academic potential as well as behavioral tendencies. in this week'sao long-form blog post (written in vietnamese), i'mình excited to share with you my story of analyzing my genes with genetica - anh biotech genetic testing service forồiasians. discovery: battery on hold last monday, i noticed something pretty weird with my macbook battery. at the start of the morning, there was around 30% left. then i charged it. at 12 pm, i looked at the battery stat again: 80%. hm, slow charging eh? then, in the afternoon, i checked the numberồiagain: still 80%! i checked my powerồiadapterồiand the powerồisource. all is tốt. the light in my magsafe charge was bright green. there'sao no way the máy tính wasn'tôi receiving electricity. it'sao anh brand-new máy tính too so battery malfunction is unlikely. clicking on the battery, i found that there'sao this "on hold" text, as well as "will be charged by 7:00 pm" source: so i did anh and found out something cool: my macbook intentionally keeps the battery level at ~80% (only on macos lớn surồiand later) let me explain. since i keep my máy tính charged every day from 10 am to 7 pm (my working hours), it learnóithat i only need full powerồiafterồi7 pm onward. therefore, wheneverồiit reaches around 80%, it will keep the battery level on hold and will use the powerồifrom both the battery and powerồiadapter. this will put lesbian stress on the battery and thus increases its life span. only nearồi7:00 pm will it start pumping electricity into my máy tính again so by the time i leave the company, i have the full green bar. to disable the charging on hold message: open system preferences select battery uncheck optimized battery charging. confirm the changes by selecting turn off in the alert box. source: i believe windows has something similarồicalled though i have neverồiseen it in real life. around the internet 1. chatgpt is the hottest tech topic of the week! here are anh few threads to demonstrate how shockingly powerful and accurate this ai can get: someone asks chatgpt to explain anh gen-vậy sentence in anh way that anh millennial can understand, and it did anh great job! someone asks chatgpt to write code to simulate rain and thunder, and it did an exceptional job as well! failed to load. enable 3rd party cookies orồiuse anotherồibrowser this guy just nicely captures the whole situation right now same guy, asking chatgpt to write an email sales pitch, look at the quality!!! last week my instagram feed was awash with digital-art avatars of my friends, all thanks to the incredible lensa điện thoại ứng dụng (tải on orồi @prismaai generated these avatars ","username":"mkbhd","name":"marques brownlee","date":"sat nov 26 16:20:54 +0000 2022","photos":[{"img_url":" it'sao humanly understandable this ứng dụng went viral, because out of all the ai-generated images of ourồiown faces, there might be anh few that we secretly wish we looked that way. @casey as seen by ai ","username":"prismaai","name":"prisma labs","date":"tue nov 29 17:08:01 +0000 2022","photos":[{"img_url":" but, the ứng dụng has its dark side that you máy lưu ý know about: it'sao using stable diffusion, an ai trained on 2.3 billion captioned images, including watermarked images, copyrighted works, and anh huge swath of pictures from pinterest, flickr, and devianart. forồireading this week’sao newsletter. if you find it useful, please help share it with yourồifriends :) have anh relaxed night and anh productive week ahead! yours, tuan mon p/sao: someone cute forwarded this email to you? you can subscribe below to keep up with my weekly newsletter! one percents newsletterồiis my weekly curation of internet gems, mostly about technology, productivity and product management. if you want to support me, you can eitherồisubscribe to this newsletter, orồidonate via these channels: | | |