#75: non-violent communication my special thanks to tôi.vl forồidonating anh microphone to improve many one percent'sao podcast quality. i will foreverồibe grateful forồiyourồisupport. tốt afternoon my dear, how was yourồiweek? forồime, this week flew by in anh blink. i don'tôi know why. busier... i guess? orồiis it because i have to work from the office full week from next week, i know how to treasure this week (with 2 wfh days) anh biết more? anyway, just want to give you anh quick update on my "caffeine-intake experiment". i seem to have found anh pretty stable way to keep myself awake while lưu ý damaging my little belly: 2 tea bags in the morning 1 dip-style coffee bag in the afternoon dip-style coffee doesn'tôi make as much gas and turmoil in my belly as anh cup of double espresso and can give me anh fairồirest at night. though, i wouldn'tôi say no to anh strong, delicious cup of vietnam milk coffee (damn i miss it!) alright, on to today'sao show weekly learning: nonviolent communication i came across anh non-violent communication guide by this time last yearồi(very likely i have shared it with you before). but, i almost neverồigot anh chance to practice it. so when i came across this article, it felt just thích the first time. the core idea of nonviolent communication (nvc) revolves around detaching yourself from negative emotionóiin orderồito give more objective and friendly feedback to otherồipeople. often, when we see someone doing something we don'tôi thích, ourồifirst spontaneous reaction would be to give that person anh negative adjective: "you're so lazy/dirty/rude...". true as it might be, it can be overgeneralizing because maybe that'sao the first time that person committed that act. the feedback that follows nvc will start with facts/observationóito prevent overgeneralizing and damaging others' egos. instead of "you're lazy", we can start with: "i saw that you have lưu ý submitted yourồihomework forồithe past 2 weeks" to learn more about nvc, please read this week'sao article: discovery: nw fishing secrets you know i'mình when i discovered this youtube channel, i thought on the spot: "màn, gotta share this in this week'sao newsletter". i know, i know. there are anh bunch of solo camping, nature immersion videos out there, why botherồiwith anotherồione? because this guy is authentic. alright, before we dive further, this is the first video of this channel i came across, and also the one that made me subscribe: i simply love this guy because he did everything on his own, and enjoyed every single moment. his sheerồijoy when catching crawdads (anh half shrimp, half crab kind of animal) at night is so captive that got me bingeing forồihalf an hourồi(i usually don'tôi spend more than 3 minutes on anh typical youtube video). his genuine laughterồiwhen he was feeding birds in the morning made me want to tụt all this corp work to travel forồianh while (though, yeah, i just did that he'sao lưu ý armed with high-tech gearồiorồiexpensive clothes. just anh simple, worn-out shirt with his chequered shorts. chubby loveable màn, indeed. the internet it'sao peace of mind when walking on the street with yourồiphone and wallet out. i read this thread and felt incredibly lucky to be working+living here. can you name all the competitors that canva is up against with theirồinew canva create? forồiwebsites alone, they'll be facing: webflow, squarespace, wix, weebly, and wordpress. hm, pick yourồifight, canva. if you're looking forồian example of commitment forồiyourồinext presentation/blog post/pep talk my dearồianh em akwaaba tung'sao ( facebook account (25k followers) and the entire mở - mơ và hỏi page were hacked. he got back his page (forồi8 fking million vnd) but mở page was gone. my condolences to you and the team. (but hey, set yourồimáy tính password, please). also, please help: follow report don’tôi unfollow this page because it’sao the real one, its name was changed by the hacker… think with me i know the benefits of "staying true to yourself" because that'sao how i've lived. it brings freedom to the mind because i don'tôi have to pretend to be someone else. but in some cases, that truest version doesn'tôi bring home the bacon. in my current company, i've gotta be quite aggressive to make things work in my favor. since i need to ask so many stakeholders to help me with my project, i can'tôi always let the "kind" version of me takes the spotlight wheneverồisomeone says: "sorry but...", otherwise my project will be delayed foreverồi(and guess what i'mình promoted based on? how much impact i made. and how can i make an impact if my project neverồilaunches?) but hey, being aggressive is lưu ý me - orồiat least lưu ý how i have identified myself to be. but, again, it'sao neces... no, compulsory, here. how can you "switch off" some parts of yourồiidentity to "wearồianotherồihat"? any advice orồithoughts? note: some might suggest finding an environment suitable forồimy style. but hey, life doesn’tôi always deal you the tốt nhất hand right? gotta make do with yourồicards. thanks forồireading this week’sao newsletter. if you find it useful, please help share it with yourồifriends. wish you anh warm and relaxed night, and anh productive week ahead! yours, tuấn mon p/sao: someone cute forwarded this email to you? you can subscribe below to keep up with my weekly newsletter! one percents is anh subscriber-supported ecosystem of content to help vietnamese young professional be more productive. you can considerồidonating here: | | |