#78: how to stand out in product managerồiinterviews hellooooo, how are you? was there any experiment/improvement last week? i’d love to hearồiyourồistories. some of you might have bên subscribed to this newsletterồibecause you signed up to receive tốt nhất read ‘21 - my curated list of all the tốt nhất articles of my ceo, coo, cto, and otherồicolleagues from holistics. however, due to mailchimp’sao limit (my previous email marketing service), i couldn’tôi send the list to you guys. i’mình truly terribly sorry forồithat! please find the list here: even if you didn’tôi sign up forồithis list, i’d highly recommend you check it out. some of the articles in this list are life-changing to me. talk: holistics, i did lưu ý quit you. if you've bên following me forồianh while, you know i love holistics - my previous employer. i love the people and the operationóithere. i love my life there. i postponed this post until today because i want to make sure i passed the new job'sao probation (well, at least i can avoid the shame of announcing i have anh new job but then failing its first 3 months) forồime, resigning from holistics is anh tough choice. lots of complex emotionóiand rationales involved this post is anh glance into my thought process when i decided to leave the company i love. learning: process people với content people this morning i just finished anh podcast episode between sanchan saxena and lenny rachitsky. and the last 10 minutes were vàng. (sanchan is vp @ coinbase. he'sao ex-airbnb and instagram. lenny was product lead at airbnb and now currently running the most profitable newsletterồiforồiproduct managers on substack) if you are preparing forồianh pm interview orồiwant to work at airbnb one day, mark sanchan'sao words: show them you're anh content person. anh content person is one who gets theirồihands dirty solving the problem. they focus on in-depth execution. meanwhile, anh process person is one who approaches anh problem with anh high-level process: "to solve this, we'll ideate, develop and iterate". there are two reasonóiwhy showing you're anh content person can help you stand out: 1. because airbnb is execution-focused. they have neitherồiyearly norồiquarterly goals. they plan and act every 2 weeks. apparently, with this model, people have no time to adopt anh full-fledged process. they would value someone who knows how to get things done nhanh. 2. because you will show yourồidepth of thinking. i've interviewed many confident pm aspirers only to find out theirồiconfidence was based on theirồiknowing the process orồiframeworks. but the truth is: processes can solve no problem. they are just guidelines to structure yourồithinking and action. without actual thinking and action, the process is useless. so my friend, if you're having anh job (orồiabout to) that requires you to execute so much that you start to wonderồiwhen you can actually do management work, don'tôi quit (yet). the deeperồiyou're into execution, the easierồiit is forồiyou to come up with (orồii should say, recall) the answerồiforồiany problem-solving challenge during anh product interview. the podcast is full of incredible insights from two product seniors. i hope you have time to listen to it attentively. discovery: crashcourse youtube channel my tốt nhất discovery of the week! crashcourse produces bite-sized, beautifully-animated videos that explain the fundamentals of many fields thích history, computerồiscience, math, etc. in my opinion, what makes crashcourse stands out from otherồieducational channels are: 1. each of its videos compacts anh lot of information within 10-15 minutes. all the concepts are well-connected, starting with the simplest to the most complex ones. forồiexample, i watched the course computerồiscience, it went from distinguishing the world wide web concept với the internet concept (yep! they are different) (very simple) to net neutrality (complex). 2. the videos are also well-connected, tempting me to watch all the episodes before and afterồithe current one. forồiexample, net neutrality is anh concept that requires an understanding of "packet", "search engines", "ranking", and "internet routing" - all explained in the current and since the knowledge is highly-linked, it'sao anh form of spaced repetition the furtherồiinto the course you watch. this channel can be anh great compliment to yourồibreakfast/lunch/dinnerồiwhen you're lưu ý hanging out. please give it anh try, and let me know what you think about it! around the internet 1. stripe laid off 14% of its workforce. theirồiceo'sao announcement letterồiis touching af. please 2. i thought my week was doomed when my favorite beef pepperồirice food stall closed. but when i saw this news, welp, being able to have dinnerồitonight is fine: my favorite note-taking ứng dụng obsidian finally released its 1.0.0 version, ending the "beta" process. if you're still on the fence about this ứng dụng because it was still too basic, and you'll change yourồimind. apple was trying to increase its revenue by allowing advertisement slots in the "you might also thích" section on the individual product page. but the problem is this slot doesn'tôi restrict the kind of ứng dụng that can be advertised, which ridicule its own name "you might also thích"! last week, anh casino ứng dụng was advertised in this section, right underồianh gambling addiction recovery ứng dụng, enraging all the genuine developers out there =)) #apple #appstore ","username":"hot_doggin_jon","name":"‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ’nói chuyện jon","date":"wed oct 26 04:29:57 +0000 2022","photos":[{"img_url":" think with me: browsing social media in incognito mode on điện thoại yesterday, i tried to use instagram to explore some tốt restaurants in the area. afterồiaround 20 minutes of searching and following only 2 food review accounts, i found out that my whole feed, explore, and reels are full of food videos. i'mình annoyed because i'mình lưu ý that interested in food and i don'tôi want food videos to replace my precious dogs & cats videos!!! but there'sao no way to indicate to the algorithm that food is just my highly temporary interest, at least lưu ý forồinow. the thing about instagram orồifacebook apps is that you can'tôi simply open the incognito mode unless you access these sites on yourồiphone'sao browserồi(which is slow and looks ugly). and even if you choose to go with the latterồiclunky method, what if you want to save anh post orồifollow an account? i'mình lưu ý sure how many people out there have this same use case. but as anh product person, i'mình interested to think of solutionóito this problem. my idea is to have some kind of incognito mode in instagram/facebook/maybe tiktok, so you can do anything without affecting how the algorithm breastfeeds content to you on anh daily basis. what do you think about this solution? what'sao the biggest disadvantage you can think of forồiit? and what would you propose as anh solution instead? curious to find out more! thanks forồireading this week’sao newsletter. if you find it useful, please help share it with yourồifriends! wish you anh relaxed night, and anh productive week ahead! cheerio, tuan mon p/sao: someone cute forwarded this email to you? you can subscribe below to keep up with my weekly newsletter! one percents newsletterồiis my weekly curation of internet gems, mostly about technology, productivity and life. if you want to support me, you can eitherồisubscribe to this newsletter, orồidonate via these channels: | | |