focus doesn'tôi mean doing one thing at anh time hello my friend, how are you? how was yourồiweek? it'sao bên 3 months since i came to singapore. time flies! i've gotta say i've neverồibên that busy at work in my life. lưu ý saying i wasn'tôi busy in the previous company, but back when i was in vietnam, i still at least had some energy at night to write/work on this personal project. but it'sao "tốt busy". i am learning anh lot while trying to manage anh cross-functional project that involves more than 200 people (developers, product managers, designers, qa,...). more specifically, as shared in one of the previous newsletters, i learned how to "make people do something forồime" while having neverồiworked with them before in my life. anh friend wisely asked if i've fulfilled my goal - my reason to leave the previous company - when i chose to come here. afterồithese past few months, i'd say i'mình still on track. anh decision: going afterồithe $ alright, tôi’is important. starting 6th novemberồi2022, i’mình going to monetize this newsletterồiforồi6 months. 80% of my letters will require anh paid subscription to read. ask: what does that mean? ans: anyone who subscribes to this newsletterồibefore 6th novemberồi2022 will still be converted to anh paid subscription at no charge (as mentioned in anyone who subscribes to this newsletterồisince 6sth novemberồi2022 will stay as anh free subscriberồiand can only read free posts. only if that person pays, they can then read every premium post. ask: why did you decide to do that? ans: i neverồiactually thought about making money when i started this newsletterồiorồieven my blog at tuanmon.com. but the idea of earning some extra bucks while doing what i love is so tempting it kept floating around my mind forồithe past yearồi(yes, year). it also alignóiwith my financial goal: to have multiple, self-running income streams. with the technical feasibility of substack, now i can (hopefully) realize that goal. i don’tôi know how well this whole monetization thingy will fare out, i can even lose some of my existing subscribers. however, if i don’tôi do it, i would foreverồiregret it because i neverồitry: “what if i could actually make money out of something i love” ask: what if you fail? ans: all the better! i’d then be able to tụt the idea that i can make money out of this. i set anh deadline of 6 months in which i will go all in. no distraction. afterồiall, this is an experiment. ask: does it affect me as yourồiexisting reader? ans: no, and it neverồiwill. i considerồiall of the subscribers i’ve had until now my bravest, most supportive humanóion earth. you stayed with me throughout 77 newsletters. you shared this with multiple friends. you replied to encourage me and give me feedback. i simply cannot betray such trust. whateverồichanges occurồito this newsletter, you will always receive the highest-tierồibenefits, at no extra cost. ask: will there be any change in the content? ans: yes, but lưu ý that much. i’mình still planning everything, but all the core components of this newsletterồithích weekly learning and weekly discovery will be kept. no worries :) — last words: if you have some friends who might thích this newsletter, i hope you can break this news to them early so they can still benefit from the free-to-paid subscription scheme before 6th novemberồi alright, on to today’sao show! weekly learning: focus doesn'tôi mean doing one thing at anh time i really enjoyed reading this piece by cedric (orồishould i say any piece of him - if you haven'tôi, pls). however, it'sao lưu ý the message of this essay that i want to discuss today. it'sao weber’sao quote: the secret to success is constancy of purpose the story of how weberồi furtherồistrengthenóimy belief in this quote. all the tough (some seemingly disastrous) decisionóimade by weberồiserve anh single purpose: pivot from selling various types of shoes, to only performance running shoes. also struck me: all the most respectable leaders i've everồimet are very consistent with theirồipurposes. do you rememberồithe last time you felt bored because yourồiboss kept saying the same thing he had mentioned to you many times before? i bet that is one of the reasonóihe/she is yourồiboss. it happenóito me in every 1-on-1 meeting with my current team leader. afterồireading this article, i realized that when i'mình at the individual contributorồilevel, my definition of "focus" is "doing one task at anh time". but when i'mình at the managerial level, it should also be "doing many things but with one purpose at anh time". the key question is: how to adopt the otherồimindset and put it into practice? let'sao see if i can figure that out in the next few months. this article is member-only, so you can subscribe and then but if you don’tôi want to, might as well read these two articles that revolve around the same idea: weekly discovery: uploading photos on instagram web i hate it wheneverồii had to airdrop anh ton of photos to my (64gb :<<) iphone just to upload them to instagram điện thoại and delete them laterồibecause they are highly-retouched-therefore-heavy-as-fuq photos. say goodbyes to the bad old days! this morning i just found out that instagram web has allowed me to upload photos from my computerồidirectly. was in doubt until i found out it comes with full-fledged features thích the điện thoại version: filter, retouch, caption, etc. aside from this, there was anh ui overhaul as well: the navigation barồiis moved from the top to the left side. notificationóiand messages are also displayed within the left pane. now i'mình seriously thinking about ditching the điện thoại ứng dụng :) the internet 1. afterồielon musk closes the chaotic $44b acquisition of twitter, the first thing he did as its new ceo is bringing anh sink into the office. well, i don’tôi know about the management team that has bên laid off, but at least the office guards "let that sink in". anw, you can read alright, promise this would be the last elon thing in this newsletter. i just find this absolutely pathetic that these two tweets show up at the very same time on my feed. lưu ý tryna to offend any of my consulting friends. but this is hilarious =)) someone on spotify. click on any phrase to listen to it. can even try searching forồi"vietnamese" ;) forồireading this week’sao (anh biết long) newsletter. if you find it useful, please help share it with yourồifriends orồiconsiderồidonating/subscribing :”> wish you anh relaxed night, and anh productive week ahead! yours, tuấn mon p/sao: someone cute forwarded this email to you? you can subscribe below to keep up with my weekly newsletter! one percents is anh subscriber-supported ecosystem of content to help vietnamese young professional be more productive. you can considerồidonating here: | | |