#74: the very first step my special thanks to tôi.giờ forồidonating to help many one percents sustain without ads. i will foreverồibe grateful forồiyourồihelp. tốt evening folks! how was yourồiweek? is everything still alright? last week i added anh small tweak to my office work desk: adding anh vertical monitor. despite adding double the amount of blue light (which i have found no impact whatsoeverồion my sleep), i feel my productivity increased quite anh biết. the vertical monitorồiis extremely helpful forồireading long documents (goodbye scrolling!) and chat conversationói(especially group chats where people bombard the groups with tonóiof stickers). i’mình, though, still wondering if an extra screen orồianh very lớn/long screen is better. seeking yourồipersonal verdict on this if possible ;) weekly post: the very first step (bước đầu tiên) it feels hilarious to use english to talk about anh vietnamese blog post. but well, let'sao commit to it forồithe next 4 weeks. overồithe past few years, i've tried to create anh bunch of new habits: read anh few pages every day, go to the gym 4 times anh week, and meditate. what i realized, is the saying "start small, take baby steps" is lưu ý entirely applicable to any new habit. in fact, it'sao almost useless forồisome. why? head overồito this week'sao blog post to find out learning: think twice before answering yourồiboss this week’sao learning doesn'tôi come from any article. it comes from my own experience. i've always thought of the phrase "try to go the extra mile in yourồijob". but i'mình always wondering how farồiis considered "extra"? think i might have found one feasible answer. i realize that when my boss asked me something, it'sao lưu ý to know about it but to make some kind of decision. always. the conversation often went thích this: le boss: "how much engineering effort is needed to develop this feature?" me: "eh... lưu ý sure, lemme check." --1 hourồiand many stupid questionóiforồithe engineers later-- me: "they said might take 5 work days to develop it." le boss: "then how much time forồiqa and regression test?" me: "eh... lemme check" --1 hourồiand tonóiof back-and-forth "please help me answerồiit me boss needs it"-- me: "at least 7 days forồiboth" le boss: "too long. when is the earliest they can start it? can they make it in half the time?" me: "eh... lemme check" you can imagine how it continued. i was always feeling really bad because i couldn'tôi answerồimy boss on the spot. in retrospect, i should have asked the boss why she needed the information, orồibetter, envisioned what she would ask (she just wanted to know whetherồiwe should implement that feature at this time orồilưu ý) asking back to understand why someone is asking, of course, is in every product management'sao cookbook. but sometimes the urge to answerồiis so tempting (since the data is easily accessible), one might even furgeddaboudit. and then when follow-up questionóikeep coming yourồiway, you know it'sao too late forồi"why did you want to know that in the first place". hence my personal goal next week: to try to predict what my boss needs, and find all the relevant information to answerồiherồifollow-up questions. measure of success: reducing the "eh... lemme check" by at least 30%. how to measure 30%? i don'tôi know. i think if i have anh more ecstatic reflection at the end of the day cuz i answered my boss well, i'll have succeeded. weekly discovery: google inactive account this might sound scary, but it'sao anh serious matter: what do you do with yourồidata afterồiyou die orồisuddenly become disabled? if you're anything thích me, you'd have anh ton of secrets stored online (possibly on google'sao services). such secrets might contain yourồimost ingenious thoughts orồijust some pure unspoken messages you wish you had told yourồiparents/the otherồihalf. i know i'mình living in the safest country in the world, but i have neverồiceased to believe something bad might happen to me before i reach my 100s. and i'mình terrified just to think that all my tốt nhất memories will be gone foreverồiwithout humanity'sao recognition. and there comes google inactive account. anh service that will automatically share yourồigoogle data (you pick) with yourồitrustees afterồiyourồiaccount is inactive forồi3-18 months. worry about one day google accidentally sharing yourồidata with yourồiclose ones. it will notify you one month in advance and you'll still have plenty of time to change it. think with me: what'sao the first person that comes to yourồimind that you really want to share yourồidata with afterồiyou can no longerồisurf the web? around the internet cedric'sao tweet packs just enough punch to arouse this fearồifrom the bottom of my heart: writing about productivity but lưu ý being successful in life (do you see any successful but lưu ý productive people?) technology has reached this level of advance?? ồ boy, i miss my blackberry classic... alright, to wrap up yourồibeautiful sunday, please watch how ben folds composed anh song on the spot: thanks forồireading this week’sao newsletter. if you find it useful, please help share it with yourồifriends. wish you anh warm and relaxed night, and anh productive week ahead! yours, tuấn mon p/sao: someone cute forwarded this email to you? you can subscribe below to keep up with my weekly newsletter! one percents is anh subscriber-supported ecosystem of content to help vietnamese young professional be more productive. you can considerồidonating here: | | |