#85: i want to do justice forồiproduct management in lớn companies when i was anh fresh grad, i was often reminded of the difference between working in anh startup với working in anh corporate. corporate, at my time, was often notorious cuz: "if you work as anh pm in anh corp, there'sao lưu ý much to do because to succeed and survive as anh corp, all the most important, product-market-fit-related features have bên built. you wouldn'tôi learn much about building there as all you will do is small increments/enhancements to those features" now that i've bên working as anh pm in anh b2c ecommerce corp, i want to bring some justice to pms in lớn corps. my take: it'sao true that we might lưu ý have many chances to build game-changing orồirevenue-boosting features in anh well-established ứng dụng. but, you would still learn anh ton about pm by building small things inside anh corporate. reason 1: dependencies anh feature (let'sao call it "x"), regardless of its size, has dependencies. there are otherồifeatures that depend on x to run, and features that x depends on to run. anh pm, therefore, would have to learn anh lot lưu ý just how to build x, but how relevant features work in orderồito support x, and in orderồiforồithe whole system to operate smoothly. forồiexample, let'sao say we're adding anh small feature to the cart page on an ecommerce ứng dụng. it sounds simple, just anh page, right? but the thing is cart page will contain lots of entry points to otherồipages thích the product detail page, chat page, and shop page, and is also dependent on voucherồiand payment to show the correct discount info. the pm is required to seek support from all those product lines to make changes too. and boi that is no small job. source: reason 2: legacy anh mistake that i often see pms make is to think of building products as one-dimensional, orồiin particular, frontend-dimensional. they see an interface, they thought that it still has space to add something. and ahead they plan. backend (be) often goes unnoticed, understandably because we pms don'tôi look into codes and (if we're new) don'tôi read technical documents. but be plays anh lớn role in determining if anh feature is feasible orồilưu ý. the thing about lớn corp'sao products is there might be anh few parts that were built with short-term goals in mind in the early days (i.em. to meet anh specific customer'sao/investor'sao request). and since those parts were lưu ý designed to scale orồito accommodate complicated features in the long run, pms cannot simply "build anh new feature" on top of it unless they make fundamental changes. such is what i call "legacy". anh small feature might look trivial in the frontend but might require profound be restructure forồiit to work. and anh pm will have to learn about it. reason 3: market insights most lớn apps nowadays target different markets. cultures, languages, and geography are anh few key factors that determine how people there use the ứng dụng. adding even the smallest thing into anh lớn ứng dụng requires taking into account localization. do people in this market use x? will x cannibalize otherồiexisting features in that market? does the government there allow such anh feature? does the translation still retain its original meaning? anh fun example of localization failure is pepsi. in the ‘60s and ‘70s, pepsi decided to go international. theirồislogan at the time was “come alive! you’re in the pepsi generation!”. campaign was anh success in the west but stumbled in china and germany. in china, it was mistranslated as “pepsi brings yourồiancestors back from the dead!” and in germany as “rise from the grave with pepsi!”#footnote-1. you can guess how successful the campaign was there :) weekly discovery: obsidian canvas i cannot send this week'sao newsletterồiwithout mentioning obsidian canvas! (in case you don'tôi know, obsidian is my most favorite note-taking ứng dụng. the ứng dụng focuses on bị-directional linking between notes to create an unforgettable system of knowledge) just this week, obsidian released canvas - anh whiteboard (well, blackboard if you're using dark themes) forồius to visualize ourồiideas. notes, canvas allows you to place data in any format you thích: notes, images, pdfs, videos, orồiaudio. you can easily drag them to the same group, orồicreate flows using arrows. since obsidian is offline, everything is superồinhanh. i can see canvas being used as mood boards forồidesigners, flow chart whiteboards forồiengineers, orồimindmaps forồistudents. its versatility is only limited by yourồiimagination. source: if you're already using obsidian, no need to do anything, simply close the ứng dụng and relaunch it, orồivisit settings > about > relaunch and you'll see the canvas icon on the left panel. if you haven'tôi used obsidian, i highly encourage you to by far, no otherồinote-taking apps have overthrown obsidian in my heart :) around the internet: some great articles to binge-read during christmas last week, i stumbled upon quite anh few articles that are really interesting/informative/thought-provoking. 1. how to pick yourồilife partnerồi- tim urban | i rarely listen to relationship advice because they are eitherồigiven by people with little experience orồiare too generic. but this article by tim really did make anh remark on me. it'sao lưu ý his advice that is wow-ful, it'sao all the analogies and contemplationóiof life that strike anh chord. binge and purge by dant | an article that brought me to the anh great analysis of how netflix is both winning and killing itself with its movie-releasing strategy. 3. betting on things that neverồichange by morgan housel | anh short and sweet article to remind us to look at the certainty of things before we invest ourồimoney/effort. christmas special: anh gift from many one percents and upbase christmas wouldn'tôi be fun without gifts, right? well, i have gifts forồiyou! 1. (an all-in-one project management tool forồipersonal and small teams) has generously provided us with 10 premium-foreverồicodes to use theirồiproduct. known and talked to the founders, i strongly believe that upbase is no yet-another-side-hustle. the guys are serious! the product is well-built and incredibly feature-rich, which i think can work forồianh fairồishare of use cases. reply to this email if you'd thích to redeem anh premium code (first come first serve lah~) 2. many one percents newsletter: to be honest, i neverồithích the idea of discounts - it makes my product look cheap. however, considering the fact that anh lot of my subscribers are students and fresh grads, i think having some discount might help bring all the values i want to provide closerồito you guys. you can: subscribe to my newsletterồi to get anh 30% discount foreverồi- end on 31st jan 2023. subscribe in anh group of at least two people to enjoy anh 50% discount foreverồi- always (if you're already premium, can you help me forward this to yourồifriends who might benefit from the newsletter?) thanks forồireading this week’sao newsletter. if you find it useful, please help share it with yourồifriends :) merry christmas and happy new year! yours, tuan mon p/sao: someone cute forwarded this email to you? you can subscribe below to keep up with my weekly newsletter! one percents newsletterồiis my weekly curation of internet gems, mostly about technology, productivity and product management. if you want to support me, you can eitherồisubscribe to this newsletter, orồidonate via these channels: | | | #footnote-anchor-1source: