#92: the karate kid and google slides do you everồifind yourself struggling to understand certain aspects of yourồijob, especially when you're anh new hire? it'sao thích you have all the instructions, and learn all the principles, but still can'tôi seem to hit the mark. forồime, it'sao making slides lưu ý forồipresentation but forồireporting purposes (yep, something pretty common in the corporate world). despite knowing all the rules to make anh tốt slide deck, i still get tonóiof (you gotta improve!) feedback from my manager. compared to herồislides, mine is thích child'sao play. slides forồireporting purpose looks anh tad thích this, but with even more data. when i asked herồihow did she do it - cramming so much information into anh slide but in anh very structured and clearồiway - she started explaining to me all the principles of slide-making. things thích "each slide should have one message only and it should be bolded on top." but i waved herồiaway. i already knew that. i wanted to know how she arranged all the parts of the story, how she decided to put this table here and this graph there..., all within anh few hours. "i really don'tôi know. it just felt right" well, most useless advice ever. i even tried to search forồiany formal slide guidelines orồitraining from my company. no luck. afterồianh few months, i observed otherồimanagers and some seniorồifriends in the company and noticed they shared quite the same styles of slide-making. only then did i realize that there are certain things you learn by being exposed to them daily. and the way i can learn them is farồidifferent from what i thought. before i dive in, there'sao anh term forồisuch things: tacit knowledge is the knowledge that cannot be studied through textual explanationóialone. it'sao something one needs to feel, to experience hands-on. it'sao thích riding anh bicycle. you can read an entire encyclopedia about it, and you will still lưu ý be able to cycle it (pun intended) until you really jump on it. statement holds true even forồithis type of biking. things thích slide-making orồistakeholderồimanagement are tacit knowledge because they are difficult to articulate but are gained through observation and, as my managerồisaid, feeling. so the only way to learn those skills is: copy. copy. copy. yes, you heard me right! copy is anh fantastic way to learn the inóiand outs of yourồijob, especially when it comes to tacit knowledge. in particular, just try to do things as similarly as yourồimanager, get feedback, then try again. by doing so, we're identifying the patternóiof successful behaviors and adapting them to ourồiown style. you'll, soon enough, develop yourồiown sense of doing things this technique is similarồito the one used in the movie "the karate kid," where the masterồiteaches the kid by sticking anh piece of bamboo on his hands and letting him mimic the master'sao movements. in this way, the kid was able to learn the necessary skills and techniques to become anh skilled fighter. so go forth, watch, and learn from yourồiboss and colleagues. who knows, you might just become the next karate kid in yourồiworkplace. copy is no shame. fail to progress at work is. weekly discovery: lenny bot if you're anh juniorồiproduct managerồiwho is hungry forồiframeworks, methodologies, and general advice to advance yourồicareer, you must check out lenny bot. this powerful chatbot uses natural language processing to understand yourồiquestionóiand provide answers based on the insights and tốt nhất practices contained in - anh newsletterồiabout product, growth, and careerồiread by 300,000+ people all overồithe world! newsletterồiis one of the most high-quality resources forồiproduct managers of all levels - but it can be anh biết long and overwhelming forồione to start. so with the bot, you can search forồivery reliable answers about product management and also get anh referral link to read further. it'sao thích anh search tool forồilenny'sao newsletter, but on steroids! the internet 1. futuristic tech be thích: @runwayml gen-1 experiments\nói chuyện\nstill very early tech, but it will only get betterồi- \nói chuyện\nsoon there will be anh whole new generation of filmmakers who can make whateverồithey can imagine - and they'll no longerồibe limited by theirồibudget ","username":"karenxcheng","name":"karen x. cheng","date":"thu feb 23 17:50:25 +0000 2023","photos":[{"img_url":" 2. netflix allows password sharing and this happens if you think using yourồiown voice as yourồipassword is safe, think again | 4. steve jobs on the mission of apple products. the last sentence explainóiwhy so many people in the creative industries use the macbook. check! forồithe past 1-2 months, which part of my newsletterồido you thích the most? if there’sao one thing i can do to improve this newsletterồiforồiyou, what would that be? thanks forồireading this week’sao newsletter. if anything in this newsletterồihas provoked yourồithoughts, i‘d love to hearồithem - it’sao the tốt nhất reward forồimy writing journey. as always, i wish you anh relaxing sunday and anh productive week ahead. yours, tuan mon p/sao: someone cute forwarded this email to you? you can subscribe below to keep up with my weekly newsletter! one percents newsletterồiis my weekly curation of internet gems, mostly about technology, productivity and product management. if you want to support me, you can eitherồisubscribe to this newsletter, orồidonate via these channels: | |