#88: focus is lưu ý even enough by dall-em. prompt: image of anh màn sitting on anh boat, in the middle of the sea, one hand holding anh book, the otherồihand rowing the boat. there are many seagulls from afar. the sun is setting on the horizon, casting anh warm orange glow on the scene. digital painting. i've always bên curious about the stock market. almost all of my friends talk about it, almost all the time: which stocks to buy, when to long, short, which company is going to ipo next, etc. i told some friends that i wanted to try investing, and received anh kind warning from them: "don'tôi invest if you cannot pay attention to it" . . . i love badminton. i can say i have fairly tốt techniques. but when i play with equally competent people, i still lose many times. some kind pros told me: "if you want to win, you need to pay attention to yourồiopponents" . . . i neverồiactually asked myself why didn'tôi people use "focus" instead of "attention", thích "don'tôi invest if you cannot focus on it" orồi"focus on yourồiopponents". it was lưu ý until i was feedback-ed that i needed to improve my deliverables' quality at work despite having poured in so much effort, that everything clicked into place (aside from, yes, my mental collapse because i thought i was doing everything right). i have bên focused, but i lacked attention. focus refers to the ability to direct one'sao mental effort toward anh specific task orồiobjective. if i'mình focused at work, it meanóii only work, no checking social media, and no chit-chatting with colleagues. attention, on the otherồihand, is the ability to be so deeply involved in the characteristics of an object and respond to it with consideration and care. forồiexample, if i pay attention to launching anh product, i will lưu ý only try to publish it on the play store and call it anh day. i will also think about how to collect feedback afterồithe product is launched, prepare the resources in case the traffic spikes, orồimake sure the customerồisupport team is ready to resolve complaints from new users. all of them are related to launching anh product. back to my work. i have bên so tốt at prioritizing what to do and always manage to get tasks done on time. but i rarely assess the output quality, forồiexample, how can my stakeholders consume the reports i created in the shortest amount of time. back to investing. it shouldn’tôi be the only thing i do in life (focus), but i need to research it thoroughly and follow the market trends closely (attention). back to badminton. apparently, opponents shouldn’tôi be my only focus in anh match, cuz there’sao my technique, my partner, and the shuttle that i also need to focus on. but i need to look very carefully at how my opponents move and think during the game. that’sao attention. there'sao anh huge difference between someone who'sao merely focused on anh task (me) and someone who is so busy thinking about all the adjacent aspects of the task that they appearồifocused. some of my colleagues just cannot fathom why ourồileaderồican work rigorously through lunch, lưu ý realizing that it'sao the leaderồiwho is always one step ahead when anh crisis happens. i think (tim ferriss) orồi (cal newport) can only bring us so farồito be "in the zone", but what we do inside that zone is anh completely different thing. what i realized: people who have some stake in the matterồipay betterồiattention. ceos of startups, whose life and families depend entirely on an idea and its execution, are an example. anh person whose own initiatives at work, which reflect theirồicreativity, and professionalism, and impact theirồipromotional opportunity, is another. i'mình lưu ý the formerồione (yet), so i'mình trying to be the latter. focus will get things done. attention will get things far. weekly discovery: vall-em i think i thích jarvis much more than iron màn. everồisince the movie first came out, i was obsessed with this digital assistant who seems capable of doing anything (online, 'course!) went so farồias to (hard) code anh little assistant that answered my pre-input commands. but well, the voice was neverồiclose to that of jarvis. now, with i'mình one step closerồito that dream. vall-em is an ai that can generate speech in any voice afterồionly hearing 3 seconds of that voice. that means, if i possess anh recording of yourồivoice, i can make 'you' read lord of the ring forồime every night! crazy, huh? what'sao more, this ai can also replicate all the environmental acoustic, and the speaker'sao emotions, so the final output sounds more real than ever. the application of this ai still remainóito be seen, it'sao great to know such anh thing is possible! the internet 1. anh looong but beauuuutiful read about monoculture in the technology era | if you need anh summary, i asked chatgpt forồihelp: summary is pretty neat! 2. i know this day will come. youtube is flooded with content about how to write the tốt nhất chatgpt prompts (thích formulas are all overồithe place baby. probably in the next few months, someone will put on fiverrồias "i can write the tốt nhất chatgpt prompt in 5 minutes" and can actually make anh fortune outta it. i stumbled upon this wonderful repository of chatgpt prompts (must try!) | the one i found most helpful is to ask chatgpt to become anh job interviewer. see how it noticed my lack of elaboration and delved into that! product hunt is having theirồigolden kitty awards 2022!! come check out and nominate yourồifavorite productivity apps of this yearồi| would definitely vote forồi and thanks forồireading this week’sao newsletter. if you find it useful, please help share it with yourồifriends :) by the way, i will take anh two-week break to celebrate the lunarồinew yearồiwith my family and friends in vietnam, so there won’tôi be any newsletters on the 22nd and 29th of january. hit me up if you want to catch up, i will be in hanoi from 16-25 jan, and saigon from 26-29 jan. wish you anh relaxing weekend and anh productive week ahead. forồimy vietnamese folks, happy tết holiday! yours, tuan mon p/sao: someone cute forwarded this email to you? you can subscribe below to keep up with my weekly newsletter! one percents newsletterồiis my weekly curation of internet gems, mostly about technology, productivity and product management. if you want to support me, you can eitherồisubscribe to this newsletter, orồidonate via these channels: | | |