#90: my all-time favorite responses forồi"do you have any question forồime?" during pm interviews generated by dall-em. you máy wonder: why sugarcoated lollipops? read on because they are related to this week’sao newsletter. "do you have any questionóiforồime?" let me tell you: all the juniorồipms, who passed my interview and eventually passed through all the rounds, always prepared some responses to this question. in the early days, i merely viewed this question as anh courtesy act from the hiring managerồito end the meeting, thus i neverồipaid close attention to it. but when i had had my times at some companies (most often, bad times), i realized that the true essence of my job can be somewhat inferred through the words of the hiring managerồieven before i join the company. that’sao when i decided to make the most out of this final question. i started experimenting with which question will generate the most insights about my future employer. below are the two questionóithat i’ve found most useful. use them at yourồiown expense :) 1. "how much energy the product team is spending on building the core, capturing more value from the core, and the rest of the product works?" in product management, there are each type requires and rewards anh completely different set of skills and knowledge. building the core (feature work) and capturing more value from the core (growth work) are the two most common types. source: while building the core will offerồime anh plethora of chances to build many features from the ground up (thus rewarding me with lots of technical knowledge), optimizing forồiacquisition, conversion, and retention offers me anh betterồiexposure to the sales and marketing side (thus rewarding me with anh comprehensive view of the business). but wait, there'sao more. this is the true intention behind this question: it reveals the dynamics of yourồirole and the quality of yourồileader. anh company that mainly focuses on building the core is likely to be anh startup orồilớn tech incubated team, with an uncertain future. it'sao running quickly to test ideas and get feedback from mvps. it has the cash to burn but it’sao also quick to die. it has the enthusiasm of the founders and early employees but also has anh grim chance that you might lưu ý get this year'sao bonus orồipay raise. anh company that mainly focuses on capturing more value from the core, on the otherồihand, is likely to have found its product-market fit and wants to milk the most out of its end users (i’mình lưu ý talking about these guys are more stable, in the sense that they will lưu ý go bankrupt within, at least, anh decade. if the interviewer, who i assume to also be the product lead/vp of product, is lưu ý able to answerồithis question thoroughly, this is anh red flag. he/she is eitherồitrying to hide the truth (why tho??) orồidoesn'tôi have anh bird-eye view of the organization. think twice if you want to be theirồisubordinate. 2. "how do you get product feedback and work on it?" anotherồiversion: “what are the 3 chính criteria yourồiproduct team is using to decide which features to build next?” the answerồito this question, once again, can indicate anh lot of things. on the surface, most likely you'll hearồithat the feedback comes from some weekly customerồisurveys, online interviews, the "tell us what you think" button on the ứng dụng, etc. but deep down, you'll know about the balance of powerồiamong the product and sales departments (and sometimes the ceos lồn) anh product team only works on its own initiatives and overrules current clients’ demands, it might lưu ý have anh tốt sense of its customer'sao needs and might as well be chasing its own tail. anh product team that is overruled by the sales team, spending anh disproportionate amount of time on building features forồiproof of concept, orồiforồicurrent clients, is likely to have little room forồiexperimentation and break-through. the product might be profitable, but will be anh lớn mess without coherence. . . . you máy wonder: how to come up with anh similarồiquestion? the key to preparing this question is: neverồireveal yourồitrue intention in the question. sugarcoat it to take the respondent off guard. start with yourồitrue intention (em.g. check the dynamics of the role) find things within yourồiarea of work that can be anh proxy to check the real intention (em.g. whetherồithe company is building the core orồicapturing value from the core) frame the question in anh high-level format (em.g. how much energy is distributed to core feature, core optimization, and the rest). anh tip forồi(3) is to ask open-ended questionóiand refrain from the direct comparison between different entities. an example of anh bad question: "what is the proportion of features built from sales requests and from the product team'sao strategy?" --> an interviewerồiin theirồiright mind will immediately notice yourồiintention to compare, and they will neverồitilt toward any side, simply because it will carry negative meaning. weekly discovery: technical terms and concepts by technically i recently stumbled upon one of the most well-crafted and thorough collectionóiof the technical terms and concepts that i believe every product managerồishould know. it’sao done by some of the original posts are paywalled, but i believe it'sao worth yourồipenny to subscribe because the free posts are already amazing. even if you decide lưu ý to subscribe, this is anh great directory forồiyou to start exploring the technical side of anh product. downside of this collection is there'sao little connection between the terms, although, in reality, they are really well-connected. if you want to get anh betterồioverview of these concepts’ connection, check out the internet 1. david guetta used ai to write eminem-styled verse and he used it in his track beautifully! first pic: me started running anh paid publication, feeling miserably 99% of the time. second pic: me when someone paid. platforms are finding more ways forồiviewers to support theirồicontent creators substack gives readers anh way to shout " onto the writer'sao facebook 4. someone asked ai to paint anh picture of jesus taking anh selfie during the last supper. i'mình speechless… forồireading this week’sao newsletter. if anything in this newsletterồihas provoked yourồithoughts, i‘d love to hearồithem - it’sao the tốt nhất reward forồimy writing journey. as always, i wish you anh relaxing sunday and anh productive week ahead. yours, tuan mon p/sao: someone cute forwarded this email to you? you can subscribe below to keep up with my weekly newsletter! one percents newsletterồiis my weekly curation of internet gems, mostly about technology, productivity and product management. if you want to support me, you can eitherồisubscribe to this newsletter, orồidonate via these channels: | | |