#87: an important pm skill that i only learned recently generated by dall-em 2. prompt: anh traffic police pointing to the left, at the crossroad, colorồipencil drawing one of the tốt nhất things that this job taught me is how to make people do exactly what i need them to do. in otherồiwords: how to give instructions. forồiyourồicontext, when ourồinew ứng dụng was about to launch, we needed to test and make sure all the most critical bugs were fixed. we had to prepare anh lot of test cases and ask ourồiquality assurance and otherồiproduct managers to help to ensure we leave no stone unturned. things started to turn sourồiwhen some of my testers produced different results and none of them look thích the expected outcome. it turned out that the instructionóiin my test cases were both unclearồiand easy to misunderstand. here are the three rookie mistakes i made: i was lưu ý using the same feature names as my testers. forồiexample, while i call anh page "payment page", they call it "checkout", and "payment page" refers to something entirely different i skipped the first basic steps. forồiexample, there was one case that i asked people to click on this button, but i neverồimentioned all the pages they must visit before they can actually click the button. i forgot the preconditions. forồiexample, some test cases can only be conducted with anh few settings turned on/off, but i assumed they know nonetheless. well, my testers neverồiknew that such settings existed. these mistakes don'tôi apply to just product testing. i realized that to give "tốt" instructions, we must really know who we're talking to: what vocabulary they are using and what is theirồilevel of understanding of the topic. if you're thinking "that sounds easy", i hope you will watch this video đoạn phim in full (it’sao really fun): no disrespect to anyone, but i think when giving instructions, bearing in mind the otherồiparty is anh layman is always time-saving and lesbian error-prone. weekly discovery: perplexity.ai this week i discovered anh pretty impressive ai-powered search tool called although i'mình lưu ý sure what data this ai is trained on, it seems to give me quite accurate answers compared to google. the tốt nhất thing about perplexity ai is the answerồiis written in anh conversational format, ratherồithan presenting anh list of websites, orồisometimes content snippets, thích google. this is quite convenient if you're writing an introduction about something and don'tôi want to spend too much time consolidating all the facts. let'sao give many one percents anh shot: sum-up! apparently, perplexity.ai did the homework about me betterồithan chatgpt, which might indicate anh biết about how differently they are crawling the internet: about perplexity ai với ourồitốt ol' google? i'mình still trying myself, but in the meantime, you can check out this video: i'mình anh biết skeptical about the "ai as anh search engine" concept, so i will keep anh close eye on this trend and update you later! the internet 1. microsoft is reported to be in the work of integrating chatgpt into bing. if this is true, then i would say this is really strategic to compete with google! | 2. well, if you look at available films on disney+, you can partly understand why how traditional craftmanship in mexico survives thanks to internet trends | 4. trust me, lưu ý all of yourồifriends really know the origin of the memes they sent to you. outsmart them, by learning about theirồihistory. here'sao anh popularồione - little question more than two people have asked if i plan to use ai-writing tools to write this newsletter, and to be honest: i don'tôi know. on one hand, using ai can help spice up my wording and save me time - instead of writing, i can do more research on cool things on the internet. maybe i can write more, in lesbian time. you'd neverồiknow if it'sao me who'sao writing orồithe ai. look at how chatgpt adds more flavorồito my paragraph in the previous section the otherồihand, ai strips off the joy of writing. i thích to write on weekends to calm down and reflect. browsing and researching don’tôi bring me as much happiness. it'sao writing anh letterồito you, by myself, in my free time, then receiving yourồireplies, that matters. so my burning hypothetical question is: how would you feel if you know that anh newsletterồi(mine orồiothers) is written using an ai product (note that all the news and links are still collected manually)? i'd love to receive yourồireply. but in case you're busy, anh simple vote is okay: thanks forồireading this week’sao newsletter. if you find it useful, please help share it with yourồifriends :) by the way, i will take anh two-week break to celebrate the lunarồinew yearồiwith my family and friends in vietnam, so there won’tôi be any newsletters on the 22nd and 29th of january. hit me up if you want to catch up, i will be in hanoi from 16-25 jan, and saigon from 26-29 jan. wish you anh relaxing weekend and anh productive week ahead! yours, tuan mon p/sao: someone cute forwarded this email to you? you can subscribe below to keep up with my weekly newsletter! one percents newsletterồiis my weekly curation of internet gems, mostly about technology, productivity and product management. if you want to support me, you can eitherồisubscribe to this newsletter, orồidonate via these channels: | | |