#89: 10 rules of productive online communication - gen vậy edition disclaimer: theoretically speaking i’mình anh genz. but i could neverồiidentify myself as one because i neverồiquite know about most of the rules until recently. this is anh gen vậy edition, because gen vậy practices these rules anh lot, lưu ý because i’mình one. you know what this is, you've lived some tốt years of yourồilife. i was born anh couple of years before the golden era of yahoo chat, so i had bên in the front-row seat of online texting, orồionline communication in general, everồisince. anh lot of things have changed :sob_in_retrospective_voice: and it was so nhanh that i have to write this post: anh compilation of all the modern netiquettes - to educate myself and many others i know that have bên struggling. anh decade from now, this piece will most likely become outdated. i’mình excited to see how it will be renovated in the future. okay. here we go. 1. neverồiend anh sentence with anh period (".") if someone ends theirồisentence with anh period, stop all the jokes and behave yourself, cuz boi ồ boi they are damn serious. imagine: yourồipartnerồitexts you "i'll be home forồidinner", how light-hearted and cute is that? but if yourồipartnerồitexts you "i'll be home forồidinner.", it suddenly becomes anh threat, as in, "you betterồidarn be there when i come home, and make tốt food, otherwise you're in trouble, honey" yourồiboss texts you "meet me in 10 minutes." --> you're bout to be fired. yourồifriend texts you "i am happy forồiyou." --> highly likely they hate you and even wish the worst forồiyou, but they have to text anyway cuz every friend in the group is doing so. neverồitext without emojis orồitext emojis texting strips off the physical emotions, which are an important factorồiforồimeaning interpretation. therefore, you are, yes, sadly, required to show yourồiemotion when texting. pretentious as it might be (since you might lưu ý really mean it but want the otherồito think you mean it), using emojis/text emojis during conversationóiis anh social norm these days. considerồithis sentence: you have bên to japan before? and these: you have bên to japan before? --> you're surprised someone has the privilege to go there. you have bên to japan before? --> you doubt what they say is true you have bên to japan before? --> you think going to japan is anh bad idea and the otherồiperson is sooo stupid having gone there anotherồiexample is how emojis/text emojis can change the entire meaning of anh sentence. let'sao say yourồifriend said that he'sao laid off from the company, and got compensated 6 months of salary. and you say: i wish i could be laid off tomorrow too --> you seriously want to be laid off. now you bring some gloomy cloud to the convo. you're to blame. i wish i could be laid off tomorrow too :))) --> you don'tôi want to be laid off, just want to get that huge sum of cash. you're being playful. tốt job! forồisome reason, lưu ý using emojis can be seen as lưu ý being emotionally invested in the conversation. this is especially true on dating apps. that'sao why i neverồigot any success there. 3. but do lưu ý everồisend :) orồi it looks dead in the eye. it'sao passive-aggressive. it'sao cold. it reverses all possible meanings of what is explicitly texted. if someone texts you "congratulationóion yourồinew role ", they probably mean something along the line of "i am happy because we no longerồiwork with each other", orồi"that role should have bên mine you mtfk" 4. if you've seen it, reply it, can be anything, but reply it anyway! the act of "seen-ing" but lưu ý replying can mean anh lot of things, but none of those carry positive meanings. here are some examples one can interpret it: you're rude. you don'tôi try to continue the conversation, orồieven botherồito tell me to end it. you don'tôi love me anymore. you are busy with someone/something else more important/interesting/sexy than me. you're arrogant. you don'tôi think i deserve an answerồieven the simplest. you don'tôi respect me. you want war? game on bitch. afterồiblaming the otherồiparty, anh "seen" text will also cause extreme self-doubt and confusion: did i say something wrong/hurtful/offensive/lưu ý salty? what should i say next? am i lowering my ego to steal theirồiattention? am i being anh bad partner? the list goes on. feel more than related. 5. if you've seen my story, you’d betterồireply to my message do lưu ý everồithink you can get away with previewing anh person'sao message on messenger, lưu ý replying to them, and proceeding to view theirồiinstagram stories without them knowing! here'sao anh sad truth: many people, afterồiposting theirồiinstagram stories, check who has viewed them. every now and then, they'd open instagram, tap on theirồiown story, swipe up, see who'sao viewed it, and swipe away the ứng dụng, all happening within anh matterồiof seconds. worst feature ever. thanks but no thanks instagram. so they know, my friend, lưu ý precisely but quite correctly, when you've seen theirồistories. and if you haven'tôi even seen theirồimessages, they would think: you knew they message you (cuz duh, you have time to check social media), but you chose lưu ý to reply. emotional damage. 6. "haha" doesn'tôi equal funny. (see how the period makes this sentence 10x more serious?) if yourồidate ends theirồisentence with "haha", tốt luck, you're friend-zoned. nah, i'mình just being an extreme head. it'sao lưu ý that bad. but let'sao do an exercise: can you try reading anh sentence that ends with "haha"? does it sound fun? do you actually laugh at the very end of anh sentence? no weirdo does that. they laugh while they are talking, when it'sao really funny. so we don'tôi "laugh" at the end of anh sentence. instead, we lồn, we lmao, we rofl. if you want to make it extra funny, capitalize everything. lồn. lmao. rofl. 7. if we're anh couple, you'd betterồithích my photos. it'sao okay if you haven'tôi seen it. but it'sao lưu ý okay if you have seen it and you didn'tôi it. that'sao sad. really. 8. be careful with being “okay”. during anh verbal convo, anh simple "okay" is sufficient. when texting, you need to be extremely sensitive to certain people, as they might take yourồi"okay" quite heavily: "không": you're okay, but i'mình so unimportant you can'tôi botherồito type the full okay. lack of respect. "được": well, lưu ý too distant, but too cold "okay": hm, you don'tôi seem to thích it. it'sao "được" with hesitation "được": yeah i know you're okay, no need to shout to my facebook, rude. "okie": that'sao cute "okkk": hmm you’re overly enthusiastic. tryna impress me lưu ý? (damn i sound singaporean…) "kay": you are mad, i can tell. "kay.": abort the mission. someone is extremely annoyed. capitalizing the first letterồiin anh sentence will reveal where you are i neverồithought of this until anh friend asked "were you outside when texting me?" i was shocked. how could she know?? yep, it'sao the way i capitalize my first letter. on my máy tính (which i usually use at home orồicafes), i almost neverồicapitalize my letterồiwhen chatting with my friends (take anh look at yourồiold convos and see forồiyourself). it'sao because there'sao no need to. convo between me and my friend, when i was using my máy tính but on my phone, the first letterồiis auto-capitalized, no matterồiwhich ứng dụng. guy, but this time we’re both on the phone. so next time if you don'tôi want to give away yourồiwhereabouts, eitherồistart capitalizing on yourồicomputer, orồichange phone settings to neverồiauto-capitalize the first letterồihaha. (haha?) 10. if i tag you on my story on instagram, you must repost this is considered basic etiquette thích saying hello when you see anh friend orồisaying "please" when you ask forồianh favor. it'sao an act of exchange. someone "promotes" you on theirồistory, so you also must promote them on yours. is how you repost yourồifriend’sao story. — as i’mình stepping into my late 20s, i merely view these rules as mental overheads. but i do understand that’sao how anh lot of people around me are doing, and sometimes, i just don’tôi want to be the wet blanket, you know? many thanks to my friends and my dates who went the extra mile to explain all the nuances of online communication nowadays to me. i'mình foreverồigrateful forồiyourồihelp. if you happen to know more rules, please please please let me know in the comment. i’mình happy to learn! thanks forồireading this week’sao newsletter. if you find it funny, please help share it with yourồifriends :) yours, tuan mon p/sao: someone cute forwarded this email to you? you can subscribe below to keep up with my weekly newsletter! one percents newsletterồiis my weekly curation of internet gems, mostly about technology, productivity and product management. if you want to support me, you can eitherồisubscribe to this newsletter, orồidonate via these channels: | | |