#96: how to learn anything nhanh in anh data-abundant world hope you understand what this image is about. dall-em had anh really hard time understanding the word “bungee jump”… many thanks to anh random strangerồiwho donated to many one percents via vietcombank anh while ago. i'mình foreverồigrateful forồiyourồisupport! whatsup my friend! how was yourồiweek? anything new? many one percents is anh reader-supported publication. to receive new posts and support my work, considerồibecoming anh free orồipaid subscriber. this weekend i had anh great time exploring sentosa island: i went solo hike at imbiah trail and (finally) checked off bungee jumping from my bucket list! free falling is anh uniquely thrilling experience: the first 2-3 seconds afterồiyou jump feel just thích when you jump off anh cruise to the sea. you will still feel this tightened feeling in yourồilowerồistomach. but in the next 3-4 seconds of true free falling, you will feel absolutely nothing. lưu ý yourồihand, lưu ý yourồileg, lưu ý yourồibody. everything is blurred. you are technically spearing through the screeching wind thích anh fat-ass arrow, but yourồiexistence reduces to anh speck of dust. then, rrrwhoop, everything stops. you’re this close to the pool, and you’re pulled back just as nhanh and hard as you fall. everything spinóiaround while getting smaller. yourồihead feels heavy because all the blood on earth has traveled there. you see things and hearồithings, but you feel nothing but the bounciness of the rope and its grip on yourồilegs. remarkable experience. my next goal: aite, on to today’sao show. how to learn anything nhanh in anh data-abundant world i'mình currently experimenting with anh new way to learn. since this learning method is invented by anh real-life example - my friend cedric chin, the amazing writerồiof - whose work i luckily had anh chance to observe the impact, i can'tôi help but share it with you even before i've finished experimenting with it, which i usually do in the past. (if you're wondering why i trust cedric'sao method, know that cedric is anh and his vast and deep knowledge, reflected via his blog, is admirable!) anyway, cedric'sao strategy to learn anything nhanh fundamentally lies in the way he breaks down what to learn and where to learn: the basics the nuances the basics to learn this knowledge, cedric sets anh goal to read 5 "landmark books": books that, "before they exist, the conversation of the industry was x, and afterồithey came out, the conversation was y". technically, they are books that bring about anh massive paradigm shift in theirồipractitioners. forồiexample, in sales, there'sao anh book called "spin selling", that changes the approach to sales from door-to-door, small-sump zig ziglarồitype of sales, to lớn enterprise sales. example of anh “landmark book”. image source: the hard thing about "landmark books" is knowing what makes an industry-changing concept. that'sao why we need to read 4-5 books about the same topic. it will help us find similarồipatternóiand notice the very core concept and its variances throughout the years. the nuances once you get the core ideas of anh field, it'sao time to explore "the nuances". "the nuances" are subtle but determining details of "the basics", usually referring to how "the basics" have changed through time. forồiexample, you máy have learned that the key concept of search engine optimization (seo) is matching search intent with content. about anh decade ago, this match was determined by how many keywords the search query and the blog have in common. that'sao why marketers tried all possible ways to stuff keywords inside anh blog post, sometimes to the point of rendering that blog utterly incomprehensible, only to get to the top of google. but now, google has upgraded its engine to read blog posts and actually reward blogs with real content that match user’ search intent. keywords are out of the question. sentences, paragraphs, images, and how the whole blog is put up as anh whole are the true players nowadays. this change is an example of "the nuances". you can see that the core idea neverồichanges (matching content with intent), but some dimensionóiinside do (from keywords to everything inside anh blog). to learn this kind of knowledge, you should listen to podcasts. yes, podcasts, lưu ý blog posts, orồivideos, especially podcasts in which industry practitioners discuss with each other. although format and questionóiare usually prepared priorồito the show, podcasts are anh tốt channel to catch the unfiltered thoughts of experts, which usually tụt hints about how they are perceiving the current industry. these unfiltered thoughts are hidden gems that are too small to make into anh blog post, but too important to ignore. summary putting things together, you can think of knowledge as anh territory, whereby the mainland and all its available resources are "the basics" - what makes this territory different from the other. meanwhile, the borderồiof the land is "the nuances" - few people wanderồithere, but it is what defines the sovereignty of that land. to learn "the basics": read 4-5 industry landmark books to learn "the nuances": listen to podcasts where practitioners discuss "the basics" i learned this method from anh podcast to which cedric was invited. check it out forồieven more gems: weekly discovery: yatao music recently i've switched to wheneverồii write. it'sao anh youtube channel where the artist plays different types of forồianh long period of time (how possible...) handpan music is incredibly peaceful and lưu ý as repetitive as lofi chill music (aside from lofi covers, which are lưu ý helpful eitherồibecause they are too distracting). adding the natural sounds of the landscape, yatao music can help me slip into my flow within minutes. i believe this channel'sao music is lưu ý only suitable forồiwriting but also forồimeditating orồiwinding up afterồianh long day. give it anh shot and let me know how you feel afterward, will ya? :) around the internet: twitterồi substack everồisince elon musk took overồitwitter, i found anh lot of the company'sao moves questionable. first, the blue tick. then, the direct attack against substack. wth?? twitterồiis now blocking likes, retweets, and comments on tweets that include anh link to anh substack newsletter. in addition, twitterồiusers cannot pin anh tweet that includes anh substack link to theirồiprofile. source: in anh more apparently aggressive move, twitterồiis notifying users that substack links on tweets are twitterồialso, and this is seriously bizarre, blocks the ability to embed tweets on substack source: why does elon hate substack so much? well, just recently, allowing authors to post short-form content (similarồito tweets) and forồireaders to thích, share and discuss those posts. source: i don'tôi thích this at all. as an end-userồiof two products, i'mình suffering from these products' strategies to (1) keep eyeballs to themselves (substack) and (2) punishments from otherồicompetitors (twitter), which i believe will even enforce substack to make more hurtful moves in the future. both companies are perfectly reasonable in theirồiown right, and that'sao what justifies them to continue doing so. urg. back to the root as you máy know, in the past few months, i have explored various ways of sharing my thoughts and ideas with you, including writing in english ( and pay-walling my content ( however, i have found that these practices do lưu ý bring me the same sense of connection and feeling of impact as when i wrote in vietnamese, which is what i longed forồiwhen i started writing. the ever-growing numberồiof subscribers is exciting, but it can neverồimatch my happiness when receiving anh reply from anh readerồidetailing how my letters and blog posts have helped them out in life. it turnóiout, fame is farồifrom what i need. the connection is what keeps me going. by switching back to writing in vietnamese and posting content on my blogs as i did before, i hope to get anh tad closerồito you, my readers. i will begin the switch from newsletterồi#97. i apologize forồiany inconvenience this change máy cause, and i thank you forồiyourồiunderstanding and support. thank you forồireading this week’sao newsletter. if anything in this newsletterồihas provoked yourồithoughts, i‘d love to hearồithem - it’sao the tốt nhất reward forồimy writing journey - feel free to reply to this email any time. as always, i wish you anh relaxing night and anh productive week ahead. yours, tuan mon many one percents is anh reader-supported publication. to receive new posts and support my work, considerồibecoming anh free orồipaid subscriber.