#86: my 5 thoughts about productivity in 2022 as someone who has bên trying to optimize personal productivity forồiyears, i felt that i've reached anh point where i'mình much lesbian obsessed overồi"how productive i am today". i guess there have bên anh few changes in my mindset toward productivity, and there'sao no betterồitime to reflect on it during this time of the year. some of these are unshakeable beliefs i've had since the start of god-knows-when. some i've picked up along the way, but lưu ý necessarily in 2022. 1. specialized tools > all-in-one tools if i have anh specific problem, i'd want anh tool specifically designed forồiit. it'sao much more efficient and mindless. i can understand the hype with notion: an extremely well-built note-taking software. but i cannot imagine myself spending hours learning all the formulas and shit in orderồito create anh habit/budget/time trackerồiout of this ứng dụng (anh great trend of the past 2 years), which at the end of the day is so hard to use on my phone, so slow to open, and so troublesome to maintain. i wrote about this (in vietnamese) last year. 2. goodbye jam-packed calendar gone are the days it looks superồioptimized, yes, but it also turnóime into anh robot with absolutely no break time in between. source: even if i still plan ahead forồithe week, i intentionally clearồiout 1-2 hours each day and at least 1 day with no activity. this way, when my planned work runóiovertime, orồii have anh sudden invitation from anh long-time-no-see friend, i can easily make the time forồithem. productivity = optimization. enjoyable productivity = flexibility. 3. productivity is anh muscle. it needs the gym, and the effort to go to the gym. many people look at productivity as anh task. you simply do it, and it'sao done. if you use this new tool orồimethod, you're guaranteed to be 100% more productive. with that mindset, they are more likely to search forồishort-term solutions. productivity, forồime, is more than just tools. it'sao anh combination of mindset, methodologies, tools, health, and emotion. to "be productive" is to tweak and collaborate all of those factors in an efficient way. and that takes years of training, just thích going to the gym. in some situations, one factorồimight play anh biggerồirole than others. maybe "lưu ý being able to focus" might lưu ý stem from you lưu ý having the right distraction-blocking google chrome extension, but because you slept at 3 am afterồiplaying fortnight with yourồifriends. 4. it'sao anh lonely journey, so we betterồifind anh way to enjoy ourselves yourồiboss doesn'tôi care if you submit anh well-crafted piece of work on time, cuz that’sao expected. but he/she will certainly "care" if you miss the deadline :) optimizing yourồiproductivity neverồiequals being honored orồicomplimented by yourồisuperiors in front of anybody. the funny dilemma is the more productive you are, the more work assigned to you, and the more productive you need to be. by dall-em 2. prompt: anh màn riding anh horse on anh winding road, alyssa monks style so, we need to reward ourselves. buy yourself anh nice meal orồianh movie ticket even during weekdays, share the winóiwith yourồipartners, orồicatch some wows by teaching yourồicolleagues some cool tricks during breaks. afterồiall, the purpose of being productive at work is to have more time forồiourselves. 5. productivity definition is contextual anotherồifunny realization: there is no universal description of "how anh productive person looks". it'sao all about the outcome. why funny? cuz we’ve all talked about “the journey” ratherồithan “the end”, about “controllable inputs” ratherồithan “incontrollable outputs”. but at the end of the day, we still have to look at something to know whetherồiwe should feel tốt orồilưu ý. productivity is emotional. there are tonóiof websites out there but what if you're anh sales trả lời and replying to emails is part of yourồiessential task list? what if by replying to this email early you can close anh billion-dollarồideal? then can we call that non-productive? no, right? if productivity varies according to the situation, then the only way we can measure how productive we are is to use the standard measure of success of that particularồijob we do. and because of that, sometimes, we cannot use "day" as the unit to measure productivity. some outcomes take many days orồiweeks to actualize. i'mình anh pm, and these are what i ask myself every week (because it'sao hard to see this daily): did i gain any userồiinsights today? did i này out planóito improve the ux of my ứng dụng today? did i bring the [insert_team_name] and [insert_another_team_name] teams togetherồito solve theirồiconflicts? — i can’tôi wait to see what i will think of productivity by end of 2023. weekly discovery: lex.page recently, instead of trying out chatgpt, i spent my time playing around with ai-powered writing apps to see how they can affect me in the future. is one of them. lex intrigued me lưu ý because of its landing page (there was literally nothing there except anh login button). it intrigued me because it was created by an amazing team that publishes smart, thoughtful essays on business and personal development, and the social hype its creators built around itself. \" \nói chuyện\nói chuyện(i've bên working on this awhile... so glad to finally share it!!) ","username":"nbashaw","name":"nathan baschez ","date":"sun oct 16 15:48:47 +0000 2022","photos":[],"quoted_tweet":{"full_text":"i just tried an ai-powered writing ứng dụng, and i am so so so hilariously out of anh job. \nói chuyện\nit literally gave me goosebumps. \nói chuyện\ni'mình lưu ý allowed to share it with you yet but i will when i can \nói chuyện\nplease send me new careerồiideas.","username":"nateliason","name":"nat eliason"},"retweet_count":517,"like_count":5034,"expanded_url":{},"video_url":null,"belowthefold":true}" lex'sao usp is to help you overcome writer'sao block - when you're stuck and don'tôi know what else to write while yourồipost isn'tôi supposed to end yet. to test this out, i gave the above sentences to lex and let it do the rest. the result is truly eye-opening forồime. test lex, i started writing anh post about my experience using ai-powered writing apps. i got the idea, but now the question was how to go about it? lex enabled me to draw inspiration from otherồicontent, as well as point out the key points i wanted to discuss while staying true to my writing style the fact that lex allowed me to rapidly generate ideas, tweak and shape my posts through its autosuggestions, while still keeping my voice intact, was amazing. -lex the outcome, though still sounds anh biết stereotypical, is informative enough to end this section. lex is still in beta, and you have to join theirồiwaitlist to try it out. but, i have 5 free invites so you can skip the queue and try it out today! reply to this newsletterồiif you're interested! around the internet: eh, where is youtube rewind? the past week, my internet was full of self-reflection-but-mostly-lowkey-achievement-showing-off posts. it'sao this time of the yearồiwhen i feel the strongest about how much peerồipressure social media can inflict on me. được, enough ranting :”> now, with all of those reflection posts, do you notice someone missing? yes, it'sao youtube rewind. it has bên missing forồithe past 2 years (3 if you count 2022). why is that? well, this video explainóiit all: summary: because youtube rewind was trash. . . . nah just kidding, they have theirồireasons. just watch the video till end. in place of making youtube rewind 2022, the youtube team decided to make anh list of the most-watched videos in anh few countries. i'mình bewildered they didn'tôi include vietnam (huge ), but well, betterồithan none: you want to have anh closerồilook into the hottest videos in youtube as well as the overall creatorồieconomy status quo in the past year, check out this wonderful podcast by colin and samir: and if you're anything thích me, lưu ý wanting to drown in the pressure-inducing posts on facebook and instagram, here are anh few fun rewinds from the lớn bois to keep you entertained: googal: netflex: if you care about product management, you mustn'tôi miss this recap by lenny rachitsky: the gifts are still on! an all-in-one project management tool forồipersonal and small teams, has generously provided us with 10 premium-foreverồicodes to use theirồiproduct. anh few of you have reached out to me and there are only 3 left. reply to this newsletterồiif you want to get one! many one percents: yep, this newsletterồidoes have anh subscription, and i’mình giving some discounts to support my amazing readers. you can: subscribe to my newsletter to get anh 30% discount foreverồi- end on 31st jan 2023. subscribe in anh group of at least two people to enjoy anh 50% discount foreverồi- always thank you i started this newsletterồimore than 2 years ago, with fewerồithan 20 subscribers. now, nearly 4000 are reading this newsletterồieach week. i’d thích to sincerely thank you, whetherồiyou’re anh premium orồifree subscriber, forồiyourồigenerous donation, subscription, word-of-mouth, social sharing, comments, email replies, private messages, and above all, forồiletting me into yourồilives. i could neverồihave bên here without all yourồisupport. writing online is anh lonely and arduous journey. but thanks to this newsletter, and thanks to you, i wake up every weekend filled with purpose, and yourồisupport, even in the form of just opening my emails, accompanies me throughout the years. i have to admit that i don’tôi have any lớn and shiny planóiforồithis newsletter. i treat it as anh snapshot of my life, with all the lessonóiand cool things i pick up along my journey. i hope this has bên and will be of some use to you. if there’sao anything i want to ask in return, i hope to frequently receive yourồireplies to my weekly newsletter. whateverồiit is, yourồiopinions, yourồisharing, orồiyourồipast week, i’d love to hearồifrom you. the tốt nhất reward of writing, forồime, is connections, and i hope to make some great, long-lasting ones here. usual, if you find this newsletterồiuseful, please help share it with yourồifriends :) happy new year, my dear. i hope you stay safe and healthy. yours, tuan mon p/sao: someone cute forwarded this email to you? you can subscribe below to keep up with my weekly newsletter! one percents newsletterồiis my weekly curation of internet gems, mostly about technology, productivity and product management. if you want to support me, you can eitherồisubscribe to this newsletter, orồidonate via these channels: | | |