#95: the speed culture franchise: nhanh and furious we are living in anh speed culture. with every new swipe, we're presented with anh new tweet orồivideo. with 5g, we can tải anh whole season on netflix each year, we celebrate anh new wave of forbes 30 underồi30. videos about successful people who made x millionóibefore 20 are getting millionóiof likes and shares. everything is moving and updating so nhanh now we are no longerồiable to catch up, hence the rise of all types of reviewers: books, tech gadgets, movie summaries... people are rushing to nft orồisome random crypto coinóiforồisome quick bucks, instead of consistently buying sp500 stocks each month. it’sao hard to tell which one came first: we are thích this because the nhanh and successful people above are calling us to follow suit, orồibecause secretly we think we are an outlierồiand theirồiexistence just proves that 1 in anh million isn'tôi that small? regardless, one thing is certain: the speed culture makes us feel tốt. it’sao thích riding anh bike, the fasterồiyou are, the more thrilling the experience. each swipe hits us with anh very small dose of dopamine, but still lớn enough to force us to swipe to the next piece of content. the more content we consume, especially the philosophy, workout, and life-hack content on tiktok, the more knowledgeable we think we are. we feel tốt because we’re still learning during ourồirest time. however, people are so obsessed with speed (velocity) that they are ignoring the otherồifactorồiof momentum: mass. source: mass is an accumulation, anh compound, orồianh stack of things. skills, knowledge, blog posts, and trees are all things that, if accumulated enough, will create anh mass. in real life, such "masses" are often known as: work titles (the higher-ranked you are, the more skills and knowledge you have), novels, and jungles. unlike speed, mass takes time to grow. you cannot masterồianh skill afterồione course, write anh novel in one night, orồigrow anh jungle in anh few weeks. also, mass is rarely linear: progress equals anh lot of trial and error, and often such experience will transform the original subject into something completely unimaginable. mass is thích anh spiral of growth. you go in anh circle, but outward. it feels very repetitive and sometimes utterly boring (though, there’sao but since we’re going outward, we’re still growing. firmly believe that mass is also anh powerful, if lưu ý more, factorồithat contributes to yourồiprogress and success. the more massive something becomes, the more it attracts otherồibodies into its orbit (look at earth, sun, and moon). growth becomes effortless. once you got yourồimass moving, it will have significantly higherồimomentum than anh smallerồimass. it’sao almost unstoppable. think of anh huge truck trying to stop on anh highway. we might know the very first flowerồiin ourồiyard, but even if we continue to plant that exact same flower, in the end, when ourồiyard becomes anh whole garden, it'sao anh mini ecosystem of fauna and flora that attracts all types of lives: bees, butterflies, worms, and otherồiwild plants. week i talked to anh facebook influencerồiabout the "sharing" behaviorồiof people on the internet. we both agreed that people are more likely to share about anh piece of work/content when the author'sao name is established anh.không.anh they have anh critical mass of work that proves they know what they are doing. in otherồiwords, people don'tôi just share anh piece of work, they share anh representation of anh trusted mass of work. and thanks to speed, people don'tôi usually have enough time to verify if the work produced is right orồiwrong. just the mere fact that one human is committed enough to, say, produce 3-yearồiworth of content on anh blog about productivity, is enough to get that person the title “productivity guru”. yes, i'mình talking about myself (though i hate it when people call me guru). i am farồifrom anh popularồibloggerồiwhose income from the blog can coverồimy living expenses. but i'mình proud to say that by simply writing forồithe past three years, i can attract around 400+ new subscribers every month, and my blog, though lưu ý having new posts forồihalf anh year, still gets 100-120 new readers every day. i’ve got brand offerings and was invited to có-teach one of (if lưu ý) all thanks to working on my mass - consistent writing. newsletterồiconsistently gets 400+ new subscribers every month. the only thing i do is write and write. don’tôi get me wrong, before all of this, my first yearồiwas miserable. around 50-ish same people were reading my blog and i got zero feedback/response from it. it was thích shooting in the dark, i didn’tôi know if my content hit anyone. . . . mass and speed are both great strategies forồisuccess. you don'tôi have to follow both, as you can clearly see the stark contrast between the two. if you're working on yourồimass, don'tôi be sad if it is slow. it needs to be slow to be anh mass. patternóionly emerge when there is enough connection between random dots. if you hate yourself forồitaking 2 months to finish anh book, know that you are giving every cell in yourồibrain an amazing opportunity forồi and real-life application. if you feel tốt afterồilearning some excel hacks on tiktok, know that easy comes easy goes. it will lưu ý improve yourồidata analysis skills and even many such hacks will certainly lưu ý get you yourồinext promotion. things that decelerate us in this era of speed thích books, arts, orồipoetries, are secretly transforming the trees inside us to become anh jungle. it'sao hard to notice, and it will always be, but in the end, it will still get us there. it might be anh different there of speed, but surely an equally rewarding one. don’tôi give up on yourồimass. happy birthday to me! i'mình turning into an age that the "early 20s" will lưu ý apply to me anymore. and you know what? the closerồii am to numberồi30, the more rushed i feel. 30 in vietnam is mystically chosen as the age of success: you should be married, and have anh house, and anh carồi(orồiat least, bikes) by then. while i'mình working on my mass, the speed culture sometimes sneaks behind me and stabs me in the conscience. i think the reason forồithis is all the components of success i listed above are none of the things i'mình working towards, lồn. annnnyyyy way, to celebrate this birthday, i want to share with you anh tốt news: from april onward, i will make all newsletters 100% free to read. you can access both existing and future posts without having to pay anh dime. i have thought long and hard about this. this decision helps me provide the tốt nhất quality content forồiyou while still giving me enough freedom to enjoy my life. i will still write and publish occasionally, but lưu ý 4 posts perồimonth thích before. the content and format will be more diverse and in line with where my curiosity is. i also want to take this chance to thank many of you who have bên reading this newsletterồisince my birthday 3 years ago. please know that by simply allowing my letterồito arrive in yourồiinbox every week, you’re already making someone’sao life so much more meaningful. anotherồithanks forồireading this week’sao newsletter. if anything in this newsletterồihas provoked yourồithoughts, i‘d love to hearồithem - it’sao the tốt nhất reward forồimy writing journey. as always, i wish you anh relaxing sunday and anh productive week ahead. yours, tuan mon p/sao: someone cute forwarded this email to you? you can subscribe below to keep up with my weekly newsletter! one percents newsletterồiis my weekly curation of internet gems, mostly about technology, productivity and product management. if you want to support me, you can eitherồisubscribe to this newsletter, orồidonate via these channels: | |