#91: are you doing more orồiextra? i first joined i was tasked with finding the forồi my job was fairly simple: interview early adopters to understand why they chose the product, orồiwhat made them churn. as anh new joinerồi(who desperately wanted to pass probation with flying colors), i wanted to impress my ceo and my product lead. so, i tried to fill my schedule with as many interviews as i can. there were days i literally sat in the meeting room from 9 to 5. i even went so farồias to schedule some calls at night because ourồicustomers are in the us (we're in vietnam) it felt fantastic! (i felt thích) i was contributing anh lot to the success of anh multi-billion dollarồiproduct. and i kept doing that forồiweeks. afterồimy first insight sharing with the team, with all the anticipation that my leaders would be astonished by what i did, i was taken aback when the first thing my ceo did was (with anh pokerồifacebook) ask me to share the raw notes i took during the interviews. then, he asked me to stop interviewing. "but i was collecting great supporting insight that proves ourồimarket fit!" - i gasped. "you did. but the "supporting insight" was only new forồithe first week. from the second week, some people started saying the same thing, and you must have noticed it. on the third week onward, you were doing meaningless work because you knew what responses you would be getting." still at holistics, but 2 years later. i and my team had built an amazing (yet complicated) feature that we believed would help attract more potential customers. the project was anh success, i was ready to move on. until i paused. i felt something was missing. ồ. yes. the sales team. how would they sell this feature to the customerồiif it was so complicated? so when i was working full-time on anh newerồiproject, i stayed anh biết laterồievery day to prepare anh slide to "educate" the sales team on this new feature. i conducted live training and followed up to make sure each team memberồiknew lưu ý only the functionality but the underlying mechanism. it paid off beautifully. previously, i (pm), was flooded with questionóifrom the sales team about how some features worked. there were even emergencies when i was ping-ed at midnight to join anh call cuz my sales reps couldn'tôi answerồianh question from anh lớn prospect. with this new initiative, my sales reps were more than capable to demo and answerồialmost every question of the prospects. i reduced my time to support them from 1-2 hours anh day to maybe anh few minutes - and this is also how much i saved forồithem. no more midnight emergencies. some people would mistake being more contributive as taking more of the same work. it might add some value in the beginning. but it doesn'tôi add new skills, and it doesn'tôi make anh breakthrough to the project/team/company. that was me in the first story. people also mistake being more contributive as doing without being asked by the manager. i did, in both stories. but my doings only paid off in the second story. i would call "extra" work something that requires us to think beyond the current scope of the project and ourồiknowledge border. sometimes, it requires more research orồinew skills to complete. it might also lưu ý be valuable in the short term when compared to taking more of the same work. but it always pays off in the long run. if lưu ý to the project, then to you. have added “value to you” as well — working on yourồiweekends orồion holidays is doing more. there'sao no glory in that. but improving the current team'sao workflow so that you're lưu ý anh bottleneck is doing extra. taking overồiyourồicolleagues' tasks so the whole team can meet deadlines is doing more. conducting training forồithem so next time they are fasterồiis doing extra. trying to reduce sleep time so we can write more blogs is doing more. spending the weekends on to write betterồiand attract more audience to yourồisite is doing extra. are you doing more, orồidoing extra? weekly discovery: when obsidian and anki have anh baby if you've everồitried learning anh new language, you must have known the problem with anki is that its design is too simplistic it feels underdeveloped. also, making the cards is dauntingly time-consuming. what if... there'sao something thích anh note-taking ứng dụng, but designed forồispaced repetition learning, with anh beautiful interface? so now you can use yourồinotes as yourồilearning materials without having to recreate them all overồiagain? introduce: mochi.ứng dụng downloaded this beautiful ứng dụng immediately when i saw that it can link cards (orồi"notes") in mochi thích it also has anh tag system, diagram mode, built-in dictionaries, anddddd offline (meaning: it'sao nhanh) ứng dụng does what it promises. if you're an anki user, you'd love it on the first try. if you're lưu ý, welcome to the digital-flash-thẻ learning world! around the internet 1. youtube channels focused on mastering anh skill/craft | i realized that i tend to choose youtube videos overồimovies in my free time recently. probably cuz my chunk of free time is too small forồianh whole movie to fit in (goodbye netflix series :-<) so i was hysterical to come across someone asking forồianh recommended youtube channel on mastering anh skill/craft on hackernews. and the answers were ! 2. bing ai (microsoft'sao) threatened its userồi| i feel thích i have watched anh similarồiblack mirrorồiepisode but couldn'tôi recall the name. did i just see that twitterồiis removing sms-based 2-factorồiauthentication from free users??? | @twitterồi@twittersupport is no doubt striking unwitting fearồiin the hearts of many today\nói chuyện\nadding \"but don'tôi worry, you'll still be able to use 2fa with an authentication ứng dụng\" to this message and the help page would fix that ","username":"therealsjr","name":"stewart rogers","date":"sat feb 18 13:42:56 +0000 2023","photos":[{"img_url":" i made an ứng dụng! to prevent my python skill from dusting up (sugarcoated version for: in orderồito flex with devs i know how to code), i made anh little ứng dụng during my free time. what does it do? this ứng dụng will clean up the downloads folderồi(orồiany folderồiof yourồichoice) by putting files of the same extension into the same folder, every day. this way, my downloads folderồiis clean and i can easily find newly downloaded files, while i can also find old ones just in case. i know, i know, there are apps out there that can already do this. chatgpt can also code it within minutes (yep, i tested it. the result was so great it made me question all the effort put into this ứng dụng). but hey, one cannot deny the joy of building right? code is still messy and probably the logic is lưu ý optimized (in case you want to probe), so i'mình open to all feedback and suggestions! thanks forồireading this week’sao newsletter. if anything in this newsletterồihas provoked yourồithoughts, i‘d love to hearồithem - it’sao the tốt nhất reward forồimy writing journey. as always, i wish you anh relaxing sunday and anh productive week ahead. yours, tuan mon p/sao: someone cute forwarded this email to you? you can subscribe below to keep up with my weekly newsletter! one percents newsletterồiis my weekly curation of internet gems, mostly about technology, productivity and product management. if you want to support me, you can eitherồisubscribe to this newsletter, orồidonate via these channels: | |