#94: managing yourồimanager: revisited generated by dall-em hello friends, how was yourồiweek? this week, i feel so much betterồithan the previous one. today, i visited the nanyang technology university campus (wow!), and hung out with my badminton friends. tốt talk! i realized talking to people dusts off anh lot of unspoken knowledge and observationóiin me. i should do this more. now, on to this week'sao newsletter! managing yourồimanager: revisited in i shared with you to understand yourồimanagerồiand tailorồiyourồistyle to fit them. source: i thought with naivete that i had the cheat code. i can work with any type of managerồifrom now on without conflicts. how wrong i was. last friday, i nearly flipped the table when my managerồireached the extremity of one dimension listed in the article. it made me so angry i literally went to anh meeting room and threw my tantrum forồian hour. ( ಠ_ಠ) at the maximum of my anger, i thought of nothing but having to feedback to herồiimmediately on ourồivery next one-on-one. "if i am required to improve this and that, why can i lưu ý require the same thing from you? managers are lưu ý perfect, they also have to improve, and how would they improve if theirồisubordinates do lưu ý feedback upward?" - i thought with utterồiconfidence that i had to feedback to her, and i knew how. image recaps everything. image source: but when i cooled down the next day (weekend), and really thought about this whole managerồifeedback thing, i realized many nuances that made it much easierồisaid than done. fear: i was nervous that my feedback would ruin the rapport between my boss and me (which, honestly, isn'tôi that tốt from the start). this leads to my hesitation to bring this to the table. emotion: this was lưu ý the first time i was (much) annoyed by my boss. i had plenty of compounded evidence to validate and amplify this anger. but emotion is lethal. it can turn me into the most unprofessional employee everồiif i everồilet it sneak into my words. the thing is: this is the first time my emotion was badly impacted by anh boss'sao doings - so it was overwhelming. short-termism: this is definitely lưu ý my last job, which meanóithis is definitely lưu ý my last boss. the impermanence of this job hinders my urge to voice up, because "i would leave this place eitherồiway somewhere in the future, why would i have to do that, and what if my managerồidoesn'tôi change before i go?" to add to my frustration, my friend (anh seniorồihrbp) mentioned something sad but damn true: herồiboss of boss used to say to her: "if you let an incident in the past [between you and yourồiboss] go by without working on it, you've missed this chance. forget about it." what he meant: there'sao no use mentioning something that happened months ago - people wouldn'tôi rememberồiit, orồiworse, they would think of you as pettily holding grudges against them despite all the smiles. what this meanóiforồime: i should lưu ý (orồicannot) use past examples to add fuel to something that just happened last week. in otherồiwords: i should (orồican) only feedback to my boss about the event last friday, which, arguably, was caused by something much more problematic - the very characteristic that caused all my previous frustration - but which, unfortunately, if stands alone, have little correlation to such "root problem". the dilemma why am i ranting about this? i want to call to yourồiattention about managing up. it'sao something rarely mentioned forồinew hires (eh, of course!), orồiforồipeople seeking advice to accelerate theirồicareers. however, it will happen more frequently than you expect, will be harderồito solve than you imagine, and more consequential than you believe. it can and so it demands yourồiattention as much as some also, cuz i want to rant. it feels tốt, although lưu ý as much if i can tell you these stories without censoring the sensitive parts :) is there any solution? i think so. actually, i did have anh feedback session (more thích anh 10-minute casual exchange) with my boss and it went betterồithan expected. but i think the success of this session is subjected to anh lot of factors that i have lưu ý fully grasped. i’ll need more experience with this before i can confidently formulate it and share it with you. let’sao get back to this topic one day. write back to me if you've come across the same problem orồifound anh brilliant solution, will you? (let'sao rant together!) weekly discovery: mentimeter we explored anh beautiful ứng dụng called which helps you create digital boards forồimultiple purposes. this week, i want to introduce padlet'sao perfect complement: mentimeterồiis an interactive online presentation tool that allows users to create engaging and interactive presentations, polls, quizzes, and surveys in real time. live polling it is anh web-based platform that enables presenters to collect feedback, opinions, and ideas from theirồiaudience in anh visually appealing and engaging way. word cloud yourồiaudience can respond to these interactive elements by using theirồismartphones, tablets, orồicomputers. the free version of mentimeterồioffers the full suite of features (though might cap yourồiusage forồisome), which i believe will meet 90% of yourồineeds already! the internet: twitterồiblue i just realized that i can now see anh thread as long as 4000 characters on twitterồithanks (orồisorry?) to this is an example: anh look at twitterồiblue, i also realized that twitterồiis now anh pay-to-win game and it'sao no longerồion the user'sao side. twitterồimáy lose lots of advertisers ( but if anh verified account can pay so that theirồireplies have higherồivisibility than others, it'sao anh break even. the users are becoming advertisers whose values are clearồiforồitwitterồibut unclearồiforồieach other. it’sao too early to see the effect of twitterồiblue on an end-userồiexperience. let’sao see how it fares out. thanks forồireading this week’sao newsletter. if anything in this newsletterồihas provoked yourồithoughts, i‘d love to hearồithem - it’sao the tốt nhất reward forồimy writing journey. as always, i wish you anh relaxing sunday and anh productive week ahead. yours, tuan mon p/sao: someone cute forwarded this email to you? you can subscribe below to keep up with my weekly newsletter! one percents newsletterồiis my weekly curation of internet gems, mostly about technology, productivity and product management. if you want to support me, you can eitherồisubscribe to this newsletter, orồidonate via these channels: | |