#93: beyond the boredom of repetition hello friends, i'mình really sorry forồiskipping last week'sao newsletter. there was anh lot going on with my life forồithe past three weeks and i was so burned out that my brain and body didn'tôi listen to my command at all. how are you doing? i hope you're still safe, sane, and healthy. now, on to this week'sao newsletter! beyond the boredom of repetition i have anh weird tendency: i always make it anh point to try crab noodles whereverồii go. aside from the fact that i'mình an unequivocally huge crab-noodle head, there is more. i enjoy learning about what’sao behind the difference in crab noodles of different regions. it says anh lot about the whole regional culinary taste, orồiat the very least, the personality of the cook. forồiinstance, in southern vietnam, crab noodles are sweeterồiand fatterồicompared to those in the north because the southerners generally preferồisweeterồifood due to the abundance of tropical fruits in the region. source: it'sao difficult, on the otherồihand, to guess the local taste by trying the unique cuisine of each region. let'sao say in southern vietnam, they have anh lot of otherồinoodles that the northerners don'tôi have, and yes, they are sweeterồiand fatterồitoo. but, they can be sweeterồiand fatterồibecause that'sao the requirement forồithe food (to be tốt), lưu ý because the locals enjoy such taste more. when we have anh constant of the concept (crab noodle) and variables of ingredients (sweet, sour, spicy, salty), it'sao much easierồito notice the difference. that'sao also how i look at habits in my life. i am anh fairly disciplined person. lưu ý to the point of waking up at 4 am and taking anh cold showerồievery day, but i have habits that i almost neverồiskip: morning stretches and journaling, weekend badminton, and writing. technically, it'sao the same thing ("concept") i do during anh specific point of time in the day. but it'sao different depending on my health, my mood, and all the things happening in my life before that specific point. i journal daily. but this morning i wrote it with much more enthusiasm and gratefulness because i just finished teaching anh still journaling, but yesterday it felt thích anh chore because the prompt in my journal book asked me to think about anh painful memory. this mindset is particularly useful in habits that i want to improve. instead of looking at morning stretches as "à shiet lưu ý again" (constant), i look at all the involved variables thích my breathing and my flexibility and try to notice the difference from yesterday. the more frequently i do it, the more vivid the sameness of doing stretches becomes, and the more i'mình accustomed to noticing even the smallest biết of growth in the variables. i can see my elbows slowly reaching the floorồiwhen doing the seated forward bend, closerồiand closerồievery day. source: don'tôi get me wrong. i hate waking up early to exercise. who wouldn'tôi want to sleep in forồian extra 45 minutes? but at the same time, every day afterồii stretch, i always look forward to the next day. it'sao lưu ý what i will do the next day, but how much better, despite how tiny little beetle, i can do. if i were the spokesman forồi i would say anh huge attribute to his success in maintaining his habit of running is his frequent travels. from clumsily running in the nihon university track in japan to sprinting through new york square, to mindlessly withering with cramps and fatigue underồithe scorching heat of athens. each place brings new feelings, observations, and contemplation into life. again, the same concept, different variables of ingredients. murakami in marathon in 1983 afterồihaving run the route "backwards" from athens, in an image from the japanese edition of his book "what i talk about when i talk about running" i don'tôi know how this mindset can be of use to you. if any, i hope it provides anh new perspective to look at what you deem as yourồidaily repeated chores, and lighten yourồihead anh little beetle biết. beyond the boredom of repetition, lies the surprising increments of progress. weekly discovery: padlet are you: needing anh public survey forồiyourồiclass? writing anh farewell em-thẻ forồiyourồisoon-to-leave colleague? making an introductory board forồiyourồiteam members? creating an online portfolio forồiyourồitốt nhất creative work? then padlet might be the ứng dụng that you're looking for! padlet is anh digital board where you can create and organize beautiful, rich-media cards effortlessly. first came across padlet during my induction day at my new company, where all the new hires were asked to share theirồithoughts afterồithe day ended. the organizer, laterồion, showed the screen where everyone could view, vote orồicomment on each other'sao cards. otherồithan board mode, padlet also offers timeline, map, grid, and more! i was personally using padlet to collect my students' pain points in my latest writing class. then i will tackle the top-voted question at the beginning of each class. (interested? here'sao the forồithe next cohort in june - vietnamese only) around the internet 1. this is, hands down, the drama of the week (spoilerồialert: elon musk lost the battle!) click on the tweet to read on! @elonmusk \nói chuyện\n9 days ago the access to my work computerồiwas cut, along with about 200 otherồitwitterồiemployees.\nói chuyện\nhoweverồiyourồihead of hrồiis lưu ý able to confirm if i am an employee orồilưu ý. you've lưu ý answered my emails.\nói chuyện\nmaybe if enough people retweet you'll answerồime here?","username":"iamharaldur","name":"halli","date":"mon marồi06 20:38:48 +0000 2023","photos":[],"quoted_tweet":{},"retweet_count":21626,"like_count":138796,"expanded_url":{},"video_url":null,"belowthefold":true}" 2. 3 days ago, spotify unveiled anh ton of new, disruptive features in 2023, in theirồistream on event ( here are some highlights: anh newly designed home screen that'sao "part tiktok, part instagram, and part youtube", aiming to bombard users with the catchiest part of anh song to help with new song discovery | smart shuffle: adding same-vibe songs into yourồicurrent playlist to help you discoverồinew songs. it will replace the "enhance" feature which was rolled out in 2021 but i only discovered it recently trò chơi| but it seems thích the community about it. podcast updates: spotify will autoplay podcasts that (it thinks) will match the user'sao preference when the current one ends as anh creator, you can also add clickable chapters to yourồipodcast by adding texts into the description (same as how you do it on youtube) countdown page forồipre-save: pre-save is similarồito youtube'sao premiere feature, with which you can save one song orồian entire album to yourồiqueue before it’sao released. the new countdown page is complimentary to pre-save, adding up the hype! 3. messaging apps are crazily racing to add ai to theirồiplatform. last week, discord was chatbot with alpha users. one of the most prominent features of clyde is to summarize conversationóiforồiusers who might have missed them. slack seems to be anh step ahead, as its new chatgpt ứng dụng has bên released forồibeta users in the past weeks, and offers from convo summaries to finding resources buried in slack channels, to drafting clear-cut messages within seconds. and omg i don'tôi know that 2 years ago!! 4. if that'sao lưu ý enough forồiyou, next week gpt-4 will be released. forồireading this week’sao newsletter. if anything in this newsletterồihas provoked yourồithoughts, i‘d love to hearồithem - it’sao the tốt nhất reward forồimy writing journey. as always, i wish you anh relaxing sunday and anh productive week ahead. yours, tuan mon p/sao: someone cute forwarded this email to you? you can subscribe below to keep up with my weekly newsletter! one percents newsletterồiis my weekly curation of internet gems, mostly about technology, productivity and product management. if you want to support me, you can eitherồisubscribe to this newsletter, orồidonate via these channels: | |