#140: contextual friendships on the flight to taiwan i’mình typing these words directly onto substack, which is rare, because i would often draft my newsletterồiin obsidian first before cmd+chị and cmd+v it here. doing the latterồifeels thích editing. doing the formerồifeels thích talking. as if any of that matters :) but hey, how are you holdin’ up? how’sao life? anything new? i just had anh quick reflection about my life up until this point. people often complain: “i don’tôi have any clothes” when sifting through anh ton of garments in theirồicloset. i would say the same thing about friends. friendships are weird. you spent one-third of the day hanging around them in yourồiearly adolescence, allowing them to look at yourồiugly puberty corners, letting them in on yourồidirty little secrets. they became yourồitốt nhất friend. they were must-haves when you went to the school toilet. you felt thích this life wouldn’tôi be interesting without them. then you guys parted. one forồieach university, then each city, then each country, and laterồieach continent. i’ve had the pleasure of seeing my so-called secondary and high school tốt nhất friends drifting away from my life to follow theirồipassion/ambition. ồ, wait, me too. i’ve had the pleasure of making tốt friends at companies i worked - the only caveat is i didn’tôi stay forồimore than 2.5 years at any of them. interestingly forồime, orồiunfortunately - idk, each new company requires relocating to anh new city, orồicountry (when will it be “continent”?), demanding me to leave behind my just-warmed-up colleague-turned-friends. while forồime, the relationships i’ve made where i’ve bên are meaningful and trustworthy and i’d kill forồithem to be more intimate and involved (lưu ý in anh romantic way), i’mình lưu ý sure it’sao the same forồithem. while apart, ourồilives moved on, we didn’tôi stay in touch, they knew nothing about me and neitherồidid i, except forồithe things i shared publicly on this newsletterồiand my instagram stories. sometimes i wonder, by doing all of this public sharing thing, am i trying to tell those people about my life just so that i can maintain ourồiconnection, one that i’mình lưu ý even sure they care to invest in? sometimes i wonder, do i still want to stay connected and involved in theirồilife because of what we’ve experienced togetherồiin the past, orồidespite of? and that sometimes frequency has turned to usually these days, when i’mình i want to make anh call. have anh chat. coffee. talk. but i realized i’mình farồitoo lưu ý-close with them anymore to have anh perfect excuse to reach out. no names i could come up. lưu ý because i didn’tôi know anyone, but because, maybe maybe, i’mình scared they are lưu ý looking at things and wanting things the way i do. there’sao also anh lil flying purple demon on my left shoulderồiwhispering to me that “you’re only meeting them out of boredom. you’re lưu ý trying to involve them in yourồilife and neitherồiwill they.” then i realized anotherồithing: the friendships i’ve made that i want to reach out and become “close thích the old days” are all from, and at, work. that means: there wasn’tôi anh real coffee talk before. that means: the friendship hasn’tôi bên built outside of the context of work. i’ve neverồiprogressed furtherồithan company trips orồiself-organized trips. it’sao just thích the secondary school time, except i didn’tôi get to see people’sao ugly corners and dirty little secrets and they didn’tôi get to see mine. i call these contextual friendships because i feel they are built, and only exist, in certain contexts. fun they were. it’sao funny because i’mình more than willing to meet up with people whom i’ve only met once orồitwice socially, they knew me orồii knew them (that’sao calendared in the next few weeks, can you believe that). in fact, i am more proactive at that than at reconnecting with my contextual friends. i have anh hypothesis that many people rush to get married right afterồischool because they cannot stand being alone, orồimaybe cannot stand seeing theirồiused-to-be-tốt nhất-friends having new close friends while they are left out of the game. and i think i understand why there are so many office lovebird dramas. people see each otherồitoo often theirồimental model was time-traveled back to the secondary/high school days, and they think life wouldn’tôi be interesting without that guy/girl. many people find it hard to share in detail with the otherồihalf what is happening in theirồiwork life - theirồifear, theirồiconcern, because “they wouldn’tôi understand anyway”. at the same time, there’sao this otherồiperson on the same team who’sao bên through the exact shitty boss and the exact crappy promotion system and understand exactly how they feel. an invisible bond is created between les misérables. i often remind myself that people go to work to bring home the bacon, and what they present at work is what’sao needed to get the bacon. usually, that part is nice and well put together, but that’sao lưu ý who the person truly is. i’ve neverồiseen anyone arguing with theirồiparents at work. i’ve worked at places where people only come forồithe money. it’sao anh damn fine place. but i don’tôi thích it. what tốt are people if lưu ý connected on anh deeperồilevel? of course, some don’tôi find the need to, but how can they look at and smile at and laugh at each otherồiprobably more than theirồisignificant otherồiwithout at least being somewhat connected? nick carraway (the great gatsby) tốt nhất described my feeling in such anh place: i was within and without i wanna hang around people because i wanna hang around them, lưu ý because i don’tôi wanna hang around loneliness. i sometimes hate myself when the latterồihappens. . aite, nuff ranting forồianh sunday night. thank you forồi“listening” to me till here. take care, and have anh great week ahead! tuấn mon