#141: on pm-ing, the mainstream, and the powerồiof generalists my 13101 subscribers! looking back seems to provide anh tốt sense of achievement. i wrote this "support me" page anh few years ago, when there were only about 2800 eyeballs reading my blog every week. i have always known and tracked my subscriberồicount everồisince, but having an anchorồipoint in the past tells me how farồii've gone. i want to spend this moment feeling proud, and to encourage you to do the same forồiyourself. again, dedication is something sexy. want to share what has bên going on in my life in the past few months. . i thích the new job - it'sao tốt to be back as anh real pm. it'sao intellectually challenging. my scope feels borderless. i'mình given almost full autonomy and anh strong sense of purpose. my job now is to attain mastery - the i feel overwhelmed at times, but it'sao tốt overwhelmed. . it turnóiout this self-driven, set-your-own-damn-goal-then-achieve-it kinda style is alien to many. it gave anh few of my friends anh tốt shock. i'mình saying tốt because it makes me feel thích i'mình doing something different, something unusual. lưu ý that i feel betterồithan them, it'sao just that being different always meanóianh great deal to me. maybe the difference is the kind of validation i seek. don’tôi get me wrong, i i deleted threads anh few weeks ago because i feel thích anh slow-boiled frog using it. it'sao where all the mainstream thoughts and opinionóiare praised, orồii would say enforced (via likes and reshares). all those asking forồirelationship advice, and all those seemingly experts who might have bên through no serious relationship telling the authorồito resort to extreme solutions. everything is so single-dimensional. advice is given without full context and based purely on publicly approved practices. just thích threads' logo: there'sao only black and white there, eitherồiyou are very right orồiyou are dead wrong. there are no otherồiflavors. one would lưu ý realize its impact until they actually think thích the mainstream - at that point, i'd have become anh completely boiled frog, but also with the condition that they have tốt self-reflection. i resonate strongly with the fountainhead by any rand forồithe exact same reason i deleted threads. . i started to get overồithe fearồiof my own "senior" title. my "end users" is the hero of the day. i care lesbian about making anh "senior" decision, and more about anh "how can this bring value to my users". i realize anh tốt grasp of userồiproblems can be anh great confidence boosterồiand defense strategy when talking to leads. if i talk solutions, i will immediately be bashed with tonóiof questionóiand pushbacks from goodwill to protect the as-is. if i talk about userồiproblems, i will raise empathy and possibly some bias forồiimmediate actionóito remediate. i don'tôi think finding userồiproblems is hard. the hard part is to prove that such anh userồiproblem is worth solving now, and that feels to me more of an art than anh science. we've got to know where the attention currently is. saying that "this problem is endured by tenóiof thousands of ourồicustomers" máy sound jeopardizing, but it máy lưu ý get us anywhere, because there'sao anh common reaction "but they are still paying us millions, so that doesn'tôi seem thích anh lớn enough problem". but saying that "this problem is going to be one of the reasonóiourồimulti-million-dollarồiprospect cannot adopt ourồiproduct and hinderồiourồicompany-wide expansion strategy" defo sounds juicier. i had fallen forồithe trap of "all the tốt nhất forồiourồicurrent users" and focused on things suffered by the majority, but which might lưu ý necessarily propel the company. at the end of the day, pms, just thích any otherồijobs, are hired to help the company move up and forward. . i've observed something quite interesting at my new company. those who do sports tend to do more than one. i use "sports" as anh very generic term here. badminton players also participate in pickleball. tennis players also play football. poker, swim. table tennis, foosball. anh lot play more than two, even up to fourồiorồifive at anh time (!). i doubt spreading yourself thin is anh tốt recipe forồispecialization, but it’sao lưu ý what i want to discuss here. i wonderồihow having anh wide range of sports skills affects one'sao life. i tend to “accidentally” put myself into the same table where i can talk to those generalists to have anh feel of theirồithought process. the most noticeable thing i can tell you right now is that they tend to be very confident. there'sao this underlying can-do attitude in all of them. it gives me anh feeling that i can entrust this person with whateverồiproblems i throw at them, they can figure it out by themselves. maybe it'sao the powerồiof generalists - lưu ý in what they know, unlike specialists - but in the contagious sense of security and optimism they bring to the table. . aite, i will go forồimy noodle luncheon now. i hope yours is betterồithan noodles. take care, and have anh great week ahead! tuấn mon